# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Preference Models

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-bych9RfQvw
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:19:20 · Words: 38772
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/-bych9RfQvw.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=-bych9RfQvw

## Transcript
[0:08] Okay, going to get started. So, the goal Okay, going to get started. So, the goal today is to cover uh choice models. Um today is to cover uh choice models. Um today is to cover uh choice models. Um if things go as planned, if things go as planned, if things go as planned, uh roughly by the end of today's class, uh roughly by the end of today's class, uh roughly by the end of today's class, uh you should have sort of all the uh you should have sort of all the uh you should have sort of all the technical tools you need to at least technical tools you need to at least technical tools you need to at least understand the uh human preference understand the uh human preference understand the uh human preference learning parts of most modern uh at learning parts of most modern uh at learning parts of most modern uh at least many modern uh sort of learning least many modern uh sort of learning least many modern uh sort of learning from human preference pipeline. So uh from human preference pipeline. So uh from human preference pipeline. So uh this would be a lot of the fundamentals

[0:38] this would be a lot of the fundamentals this would be a lot of the fundamentals but as you'll see many of the models and but as you'll see many of the models and but as you'll see many of the models and approaches people use end up reusing approaches people use end up reusing approaches people use end up reusing many of these ideas. So think about many of these ideas. So think about many of these ideas. So think about these as one of the sort of foundational these as one of the sort of foundational these as one of the sort of foundational methods lectures. So uh the goal today methods lectures. So uh the goal today methods lectures. So uh the goal today as mentioned we're going to talk a bit as mentioned we're going to talk a bit as mentioned we're going to talk a bit about uh standard quote unquote rational about uh standard quote unquote rational about uh standard quote unquote rational choice models and we'll focus on the choice models and we'll focus on the choice models and we'll focus on the discrete setting. discrete setting. discrete setting. So you know choice modeling has a long So you know choice modeling has a long So you know choice modeling has a long history. I'll give some historical history. I'll give some historical history. I'll give some historical context in a little bit. Um, but one way context in a little bit. Um, but one way

[1:08] context in a little bit. Um, but one way of thinking about the goal of choice of thinking about the goal of choice of thinking about the goal of choice modeling are a set of tools that help modeling are a set of tools that help modeling are a set of tools that help one predict uh choice behavior of either one predict uh choice behavior of either one predict uh choice behavior of either individuals or a group um generally individuals or a group um generally individuals or a group um generally within a specific context. So if you within a specific context. So if you within a specific context. So if you like you know like many things that we like you know like many things that we like you know like many things that we like to do within uh sort of machine like to do within uh sort of machine like to do within uh sort of machine learning AI models the idea in choice learning AI models the idea in choice learning AI models the idea in choice models is that I get to observe either models is that I get to observe either models is that I get to observe either an individual or a bunch of people an individual or a bunch of people an individual or a bunch of people making choices. This becomes my data set

[1:38] making choices. This becomes my data set making choices. This becomes my data set and the choice model is literally what and the choice model is literally what and the choice model is literally what model can I fit to this data set such model can I fit to this data set such model can I fit to this data set such that uh given a new context I can that uh given a new context I can that uh given a new context I can predict the choice uh that people might predict the choice uh that people might predict the choice uh that people might make. And so, uh, as we go through, I'd make. And so, uh, as we go through, I'd make. And so, uh, as we go through, I'd like to encourage people to also engage like to encourage people to also engage like to encourage people to also engage meaningfully with the assumptions that meaningfully with the assumptions that meaningfully with the assumptions that we're making. I'll try to call them out we're making. I'll try to call them out we're making. I'll try to call them out as we go along. Those assumptions are as we go along. Those assumptions are as we go along. Those assumptions are important. And, uh, part of this class important. And, uh, part of this class important. And, uh, part of this class would be sort of critiquing some of the would be sort of critiquing some of the would be sort of critiquing some of the assumptions that we make when we try to assumptions that we make when we try to assumptions that we make when we try to build choice models.

[2:13] Okay. So, you know, applications all Okay. So, you know, applications all over the place. Here's a simple one. uh over the place. Here's a simple one. uh over the place. Here's a simple one. uh I'm interested in modeling I'm interested in modeling I'm interested in modeling uh say for marketing um applications uh say for marketing um applications uh say for marketing um applications uh what preference or what choice people uh what preference or what choice people uh what preference or what choice people might make. Suppose I'm either say a car might make. Suppose I'm either say a car might make. Suppose I'm either say a car dealership or I and I'm running a dealership or I and I'm running a dealership or I and I'm running a website that compares cars and sort of website that compares cars and sort of website that compares cars and sort of sells people cars. um I may want to be sells people cars. um I may want to be sells people cars. um I may want to be able to sort of predict something about able to sort of predict something about able to sort of predict something about preferences that people that come to my preferences that people that come to my preferences that people that come to my website or you know people that look at

[2:44] website or you know people that look at website or you know people that look at cars might want. And so like everything cars might want. And so like everything cars might want. And so like everything we do in learning the things you need we do in learning the things you need we do in learning the things you need generally are sort of some set of generally are sort of some set of generally are sort of some set of features that describe uh sort of features that describe uh sort of features that describe uh sort of objects. Um so for instance for cars you objects. Um so for instance for cars you objects. Um so for instance for cars you might have the brand of the car, you might have the brand of the car, you might have the brand of the car, you might have the price, invoices, bunch of might have the price, invoices, bunch of might have the price, invoices, bunch of other information. You can encode this other information. You can encode this other information. You can encode this in a bunch of different ways. Um and in a bunch of different ways. Um and in a bunch of different ways. Um and then you might want some to know then you might want some to know then you might want some to know something about the decision makers. something about the decision makers. something about the decision makers. It's not here but you know individuals It's not here but you know individuals It's not here but you know individuals something about maybe uh either something about maybe uh either

[3:14] something about maybe uh either expressed preferences maybe demographics expressed preferences maybe demographics expressed preferences maybe demographics often might be predictive signals uh if often might be predictive signals uh if often might be predictive signals uh if you have other signals about uh things you have other signals about uh things you have other signals about uh things about I don't know background previous about I don't know background previous about I don't know background previous cars that they have driven these might cars that they have driven these might cars that they have driven these might be uh good features to extract and be uh good features to extract and be uh good features to extract and trying to predict when they come to your trying to predict when they come to your trying to predict when they come to your interface uh what they might choose as interface uh what they might choose as interface uh what they might choose as the preferred bird car or how they might the preferred bird car or how they might the preferred bird car or how they might rank different options across these sets rank different options across these sets rank different options across these sets of items.

[3:45] of items. of items. Uh you could also do this for Uh you could also do this for Uh you could also do this for transportation. So this is actually a transportation. So this is actually a transportation. So this is actually a quite popular real world application. So quite popular real world application. So quite popular real world application. So you may ask questions for instance uh I you may ask questions for instance uh I you may ask questions for instance uh I want to do route planning. So I want to want to do route planning. So I want to want to do route planning. So I want to make choices about say between some set make choices about say between some set make choices about say between some set of routes. uh there ways to do this in a of routes. uh there ways to do this in a of routes. uh there ways to do this in a break up the route into multiple steps break up the route into multiple steps break up the route into multiple steps and you're making choices around sort of and you're making choices around sort of and you're making choices around sort of specific paths to take or you can think specific paths to take or you can think specific paths to take or you can think about this as a sort of global choice about this as a sort of global choice about this as a sort of global choice modeling. So I have a discrete set of modeling. So I have a discrete set of modeling. So I have a discrete set of possible paths uh and I want to possible paths uh and I want to possible paths uh and I want to understand

[4:15] understand understand uh and model and predict uh for a uh and model and predict uh for a uh and model and predict uh for a particular individual uh what their particular individual uh what their particular individual uh what their preference might be in terms of the preference might be in terms of the preference might be in terms of the route. So things like this are often route. So things like this are often route. So things like this are often used in route planning algorithms that used in route planning algorithms that used in route planning algorithms that are part of say many of the sort of are part of say many of the sort of are part of say many of the sort of mapping algorithms. Um they're even more mapping algorithms. Um they're even more mapping algorithms. Um they're even more so used in things like logistics so used in things like logistics so used in things like logistics planning and alluded to this last time planning and alluded to this last time planning and alluded to this last time but say delivery and sort of other kinds but say delivery and sort of other kinds but say delivery and sort of other kinds other aspects of uh logistics other aspects of uh logistics other aspects of uh logistics applications. Uh you might take into applications. Uh you might take into applications. Uh you might take into account things like you know weather. account things like you know weather. account things like you know weather. You might take into account uh traffic

[4:47] You might take into account uh traffic You might take into account uh traffic uh for the user. You might take into uh for the user. You might take into uh for the user. You might take into account whether they like to, you know, account whether they like to, you know, account whether they like to, you know, drive as fast as possible but are drive as fast as possible but are drive as fast as possible but are willing to take a longer route uh or willing to take a longer route uh or willing to take a longer route uh or they would prefer um you know actual they would prefer um you know actual they would prefer um you know actual literal shortest path even if uh it literal shortest path even if uh it literal shortest path even if uh it means that they're driving slower things means that they're driving slower things means that they're driving slower things like that. You might also include cost like that. You might also include cost like that. You might also include cost in this. So uh you can do this again in this. So uh you can do this again in this. So uh you can do this again through features or you can do this through features or you can do this through features or you can do this through sort of other kinds of through sort of other kinds of through sort of other kinds of illustration mechanisms. But we'll go illustration mechanisms. But we'll go illustration mechanisms. But we'll go through some details on applications in

[5:17] through some details on applications in through some details on applications in a little bit. But uh you might want some a little bit. But uh you might want some a little bit. But uh you might want some signal on say how much the particular signal on say how much the particular signal on say how much the particular user is willing to play. You can think user is willing to play. You can think user is willing to play. You can think about this for say fuel. You can think about this for say fuel. You can think about this for say fuel. You can think about this for tolls. A bunch of other about this for tolls. A bunch of other about this for tolls. A bunch of other choices and part of your uh your choice choices and part of your uh your choice choices and part of your uh your choice model. model. model. Um okay other applications things like Um okay other applications things like Um okay other applications things like energy uh I think this fits well within energy uh I think this fits well within energy uh I think this fits well within uh sort of planning logistics things as uh sort of planning logistics things as uh sort of planning logistics things as well. So uh lots of fun applications. I well. So uh lots of fun applications. I well. So uh lots of fun applications. I I'll there papers here if anyone's

[5:47] I'll there papers here if anyone's I'll there papers here if anyone's interested in applications in bunch of interested in applications in bunch of interested in applications in bunch of other contexts. I'll have you take a other contexts. I'll have you take a other contexts. I'll have you take a look at it. look at it. look at it. Another fun one but maybe one that's Another fun one but maybe one that's Another fun one but maybe one that's sort of sufficiently sort of sufficiently sort of sufficiently um um um so simplified so we can engage with it. so simplified so we can engage with it. so simplified so we can engage with it. uh you want to plan the activity uh you want to plan the activity uh you want to plan the activity sequence for an individual and sort of sequence for an individual and sort of sequence for an individual and sort of make choices about say ordering of make choices about say ordering of make choices about say ordering of activities uh particularly depending on activities uh particularly depending on activities uh particularly depending on uh sort of what things are adjustable uh sort of what things are adjustable uh sort of what things are adjustable and whether they might say drive or walk and whether they might say drive or walk and whether they might say drive or walk and so you might want some model of what

[6:18] and so you might want some model of what and so you might want some model of what they might do over the course of the they might do over the course of the they might do over the course of the day. Um and so you know some activities day. Um and so you know some activities day. Um and so you know some activities are fixed. Uh some activities may have are fixed. Uh some activities may have are fixed. Uh some activities may have some uh ability to adjust things. Again some uh ability to adjust things. Again some uh ability to adjust things. Again you might want to model uh individual you might want to model uh individual you might want to model uh individual actor behavior and then use this for actor behavior and then use this for actor behavior and then use this for signal to to model preferences. signal to to model preferences. signal to to model preferences. We've already talked about this quite a We've already talked about this quite a We've already talked about this quite a bit. So this was the discussion that we bit. So this was the discussion that we bit. So this was the discussion that we spent the most time on over the last spent the most time on over the last spent the most time on over the last couple of lectures. So you know language couple of lectures. So you know language couple of lectures. So you know language we again used similar kinds of tools, we again used similar kinds of tools,

[6:48] we again used similar kinds of tools, similar kinds of ideas. uh to model. similar kinds of ideas. uh to model. similar kinds of ideas. uh to model. Here we're modeling choices of uh some Here we're modeling choices of uh some Here we're modeling choices of uh some decision makers typically in this second decision makers typically in this second decision makers typically in this second stage. Um but you might go in the second stage. Um but you might go in the second stage. Um but you might go in the second stage and try to model choices of stage and try to model choices of stage and try to model choices of decision makers across decision makers across decision makers across uh preferences across documents. And so uh preferences across documents. And so uh preferences across documents. And so we'll talk through sort of what kinds of we'll talk through sort of what kinds of we'll talk through sort of what kinds of models one might use for these kinds of models one might use for these kinds of models one might use for these kinds of discrete choice problems. All right. So discrete choice problems. All right. So discrete choice problems. All right. So a bit of history to set the context. Um a bit of history to set the context. Um a bit of history to set the context. Um so choice modeling has a long history.

[7:20] so choice modeling has a long history. so choice modeling has a long history. Uh some of the earliest recorded history Uh some of the earliest recorded history Uh some of the earliest recorded history is work by thirsten is work by thirsten is work by thirsten uh looking at food preferences in the uh looking at food preferences in the uh looking at food preferences in the 1920s. 1920s. 1920s. Um some of this work evolved eventually Um some of this work evolved eventually Um some of this work evolved eventually into applications in macroeconomics uh into applications in macroeconomics uh into applications in macroeconomics uh utility theory uh in the 70s. uh and in utility theory uh in the 70s. uh and in utility theory uh in the 70s. uh and in fact um some of the work done at this fact um some of the work done at this fact um some of the work done at this time eventually led to the Nobel Prize time eventually led to the Nobel Prize time eventually led to the Nobel Prize in 2000 uh to McFaten on the theoretical in 2000 uh to McFaten on the theoretical

[7:50] in 2000 uh to McFaten on the theoretical basis for discrete choice again some of basis for discrete choice again some of basis for discrete choice again some of what we'll talk about a little bit today what we'll talk about a little bit today what we'll talk about a little bit today um there's work in psychology uh some of um there's work in psychology uh some of um there's work in psychology uh some of these models actually that they built these models actually that they built these models actually that they built quite a while ago end up still being quite a while ago end up still being quite a while ago end up still being quite useful and again are some of the quite useful and again are some of the quite useful and again are some of the key tools that we use now so for key tools that we use now so for key tools that we use now so for instance work by loose on logit analysis instance work by loose on logit analysis instance work by loose on logit analysis this for qualitative choice behavior in this for qualitative choice behavior in this for qualitative choice behavior in 1959. 1959. 1959. Uh I've already talked about sort of Uh I've already talked about sort of Uh I've already talked about sort of marketing applications. So maybe not marketing applications. So maybe not marketing applications. So maybe not surprising. Uh thinking about predicting surprising. Uh thinking about predicting surprising. Uh thinking about predicting demand for new products uh and then

[8:21] demand for new products uh and then demand for new products uh and then trying to do this within say uh trying to do this within say uh trying to do this within say uh constrained cost settings. So when your constrained cost settings. So when your constrained cost settings. So when your uh different products might be uh different products might be uh different products might be asymmetrically expensive to produce and asymmetrically expensive to produce and asymmetrically expensive to produce and so you want to get a sense of uh demand so you want to get a sense of uh demand so you want to get a sense of uh demand so that you can maybe do some planning so that you can maybe do some planning so that you can maybe do some planning in terms of what you might actually uh in terms of what you might actually uh in terms of what you might actually uh produce. produce. produce. Okay. Um we talked a bit about Okay. Um we talked a bit about Okay. Um we talked a bit about application as well. So uh in particular application as well. So uh in particular application as well. So uh in particular and maybe interesting uh for folks here and maybe interesting uh for folks here and maybe interesting uh for folks here uh some of the original route planning

[8:53] uh some of the original route planning uh some of the original route planning and sort of transportation planning for and sort of transportation planning for and sort of transportation planning for things like the BART was work done by things like the BART was work done by things like the BART was work done by McFaten to figure out likely preferences McFaten to figure out likely preferences McFaten to figure out likely preferences across populations as a way to sort of across populations as a way to sort of across populations as a way to sort of predict how you might plan and where you predict how you might plan and where you predict how you might plan and where you might put uh stations and things like might put uh stations and things like might put uh stations and things like that. So again, you know, these things that. So again, you know, these things that. So again, you know, these things have been out for a while. have been out for a while. have been out for a while. found lots of meaningful use uh in some found lots of meaningful use uh in some found lots of meaningful use uh in some quite important often quite interesting quite important often quite interesting quite important often quite interesting real world applications. Okay, so a real world applications. Okay, so a real world applications. Okay, so a bunch of references here or illusions to bunch of references here or illusions to bunch of references here or illusions to references easy to look up for free to

[9:24] references easy to look up for free to references easy to look up for free to take a look. Okay, so choice models take a look. Okay, so choice models take a look. Okay, so choice models end up being as mentioned at the end up being as mentioned at the end up being as mentioned at the beginning uh some of the uh at least the beginning uh some of the uh at least the beginning uh some of the uh at least the quantification and sort of mathematical quantification and sort of mathematical quantification and sort of mathematical formalism of choice models have ended up formalism of choice models have ended up formalism of choice models have ended up being some of the most useful tools in being some of the most useful tools in being some of the most useful tools in uh machine learning when trying to model uh machine learning when trying to model uh machine learning when trying to model choice or use choice models again within choice or use choice models again within choice or use choice models again within learning context. Um again as mentioned learning context. Um again as mentioned learning context. Um again as mentioned the standard setup is that you ask uh

[9:55] the standard setup is that you ask uh the standard setup is that you ask uh humans, individuals or groups uh about humans, individuals or groups uh about humans, individuals or groups uh about choices across alternatives. You combine choices across alternatives. You combine choices across alternatives. You combine this with some featurization as we often this with some featurization as we often this with some featurization as we often do when we're building machine learning do when we're building machine learning do when we're building machine learning models. So you get signals about the models. So you get signals about the models. So you get signals about the items, signals about the individual and items, signals about the individual and items, signals about the individual and then you try to build uh predictive then you try to build uh predictive then you try to build uh predictive models on top of this. Um lots of the models on top of this. Um lots of the models on top of this. Um lots of the core technology for choice models as core technology for choice models as core technology for choice models as mentioned are you know were initially mentioned are you know were initially mentioned are you know were initially defined in know 50s 40s60s

[10:25] defined in know 50s 40s60s defined in know 50s 40s60s are still the same models we use today are still the same models we use today are still the same models we use today uh this may not be surprising a lot of uh this may not be surprising a lot of uh this may not be surprising a lot of sort of mathematical concepts from a sort of mathematical concepts from a sort of mathematical concepts from a long time ago are sort of still the key long time ago are sort of still the key long time ago are sort of still the key technology of what we do today and so technology of what we do today and so technology of what we do today and so we'll talk through things like Bradley we'll talk through things like Bradley we'll talk through things like Bradley cherry and placket loose as some of the cherry and placket loose as some of the cherry and placket loose as some of the standard choice models that were standard choice models that were standard choice models that were developed a while ago and are useful Now developed a while ago and are useful Now developed a while ago and are useful Now uh for modeling discrete choice uh for modeling discrete choice uh for modeling discrete choice as mentioned a couple of times uh I'd as mentioned a couple of times uh I'd as mentioned a couple of times uh I'd like that we engage in assumptions uh like that we engage in assumptions uh like that we engage in assumptions uh when we're going through these models. when we're going through these models. when we're going through these models. So either questions feedback uh I may

[10:55] So either questions feedback uh I may So either questions feedback uh I may ask the class questions u but questions ask the class questions u but questions ask the class questions u but questions for instance uh about for instance uh about for instance uh about uh rationality might come up. uh uh rationality might come up. uh uh rationality might come up. uh most of the models we cover will be most of the models we cover will be most of the models we cover will be focused on discrete or finite choices uh focused on discrete or finite choices uh focused on discrete or finite choices uh because they're the kinds of problems because they're the kinds of problems because they're the kinds of problems that we end up working on the most. Um that we end up working on the most. Um that we end up working on the most. Um but I will give some some illusions to but I will give some some illusions to but I will give some some illusions to other kinds of choice models for those other kinds of choice models for those other kinds of choice models for those that might be interested. Um in machine that might be interested. Um in machine that might be interested. Um in machine learning problems again often there's a

[11:25] learning problems again often there's a learning problems again often there's a ton of context the context might also be ton of context the context might also be ton of context the context might also be uh you know in in many of the classic uh you know in in many of the classic uh you know in in many of the classic settings the context is featurized. So settings the context is featurized. So settings the context is featurized. So there's a set of features for the item, there's a set of features for the item, there's a set of features for the item, set of features for the user, and we set of features for the user, and we set of features for the user, and we think of these choice models as sort of think of these choice models as sort of think of these choice models as sort of learning models using those features to learning models using those features to learning models using those features to make predictions. In many machine make predictions. In many machine make predictions. In many machine learning applications, learning applications, learning applications, uh there's not an explicit futurization. uh there's not an explicit futurization. uh there's not an explicit futurization. So again, not surprising to you perhaps, So again, not surprising to you perhaps, So again, not surprising to you perhaps, but you might for instance use a but you might for instance use a but you might for instance use a sentence as the context or like a whole sentence as the context or like a whole sentence as the context or like a whole completion of a phrase uh and sort of completion of a phrase uh and sort of completion of a phrase uh and sort of build models that can go straight from

[11:55] build models that can go straight from build models that can go straight from phrase completions to a prediction of phrase completions to a prediction of phrase completions to a prediction of choice as opposed to how you might have choice as opposed to how you might have choice as opposed to how you might have built choice models in the past, you built choice models in the past, you built choice models in the past, you know, where you'd have an explicit know, where you'd have an explicit know, where you'd have an explicit futurization step before you uh make the futurization step before you uh make the futurization step before you uh make the prediction. Okay, any questions so far? prediction. Okay, any questions so far? prediction. Okay, any questions so far? Again, very high level. If you haven't Again, very high level. If you haven't Again, very high level. If you haven't seen this, maybe contextfree uh but seen this, maybe contextfree uh but seen this, maybe contextfree uh but hopefully to set the stage. Okay, so uh discrete choice models uh Okay, so uh discrete choice models uh they end up being useful for capturing

[12:25] they end up being useful for capturing they end up being useful for capturing or at least they're designed to capture or at least they're designed to capture or at least they're designed to capture decision processes uh for individuals or decision processes uh for individuals or decision processes uh for individuals or sometimes can be used for groups. Um sometimes can be used for groups. Um sometimes can be used for groups. Um they make the assumption that there they make the assumption that there they make the assumption that there exists some utility. You can think about exists some utility. You can think about exists some utility. You can think about this as benefits. You can think about this as benefits. You can think about this as benefits. You can think about this as value. Um you can think about this as value. Um you can think about this as value. Um you can think about this as reward because uh in many of the this as reward because uh in many of the this as reward because uh in many of the applications say in reinforcement applications say in reinforcement applications say in reinforcement learning what is called reward is learning what is called reward is learning what is called reward is equivalent to what econ economists might equivalent to what econ economists might equivalent to what econ economists might call economists might call utility. Um call economists might call utility. Um call economists might call utility. Um and so uh the key assumption in many of

[12:58] and so uh the key assumption in many of and so uh the key assumption in many of the choice models is that the utility the choice models is that the utility the choice models is that the utility that an individual gets from say a pair that an individual gets from say a pair that an individual gets from say a pair of items uh say model item A versus item of items uh say model item A versus item of items uh say model item A versus item B is a function of the frequency that B is a function of the frequency that B is a function of the frequency that they choose item A instead of item B if they choose item A instead of item B if they choose item A instead of item B if given the the chance to choose between given the the chance to choose between given the the chance to choose between those items repeatedly. So uh hopefully those items repeatedly. So uh hopefully those items repeatedly. So uh hopefully it's starting to clarify how you might it's starting to clarify how you might it's starting to clarify how you might think about a model for this. Uh again think about a model for this. Uh again think about a model for this. Uh again the data is some individual described in the data is some individual described in the data is some individual described in some way they get to see a pair of

[13:29] some way they get to see a pair of some way they get to see a pair of items. You get to measure their their items. You get to measure their their items. You get to measure their their choices uh whether they choose one item choices uh whether they choose one item choices uh whether they choose one item over the other over multiple runs and over the other over multiple runs and over the other over multiple runs and this becomes uh sort of the data on this becomes uh sort of the data on this becomes uh sort of the data on which you build a model that predicts in which you build a model that predicts in which you build a model that predicts in future what choices they might make. future what choices they might make. future what choices they might make. Um in general and in a lot of the space Um in general and in a lot of the space Um in general and in a lot of the space uh the true utility is assumed uh the true utility is assumed uh the true utility is assumed unobservable. So there's an assumption unobservable. So there's an assumption unobservable. So there's an assumption that there exists a utility that there's that there exists a utility that there's that there exists a utility that there's some uh function that actually fully

[14:00] some uh function that actually fully some uh function that actually fully describes the choices that individuals describes the choices that individuals describes the choices that individuals are making but you don't get to see it. are making but you don't get to see it. are making but you don't get to see it. Um and a claim or the hope is that you Um and a claim or the hope is that you Um and a claim or the hope is that you can measure this via preferences that can measure this via preferences that can measure this via preferences that are actually sort of stated or revealed are actually sort of stated or revealed are actually sort of stated or revealed over choices. over choices. over choices. Okay, Okay, Okay, so uh how might you do this in math? So so uh how might you do this in math? So so uh how might you do this in math? So um additional assumption uh so at least um additional assumption uh so at least um additional assumption uh so at least for these kinds of choice models a for these kinds of choice models a for these kinds of choice models a simple way of modeling this is again

[14:30] simple way of modeling this is again simple way of modeling this is again using this utility idea. So utility using this utility idea. So utility using this utility idea. So utility again this latent variable that captures again this latent variable that captures again this latent variable that captures uh some underlying true preference. Um uh some underlying true preference. Um uh some underlying true preference. Um so for an individual so for an individual so for an individual uh uh uh N or sample N given item uh I or an item N or sample N given item uh I or an item N or sample N given item uh I or an item J. Uh the thing that you get to observe J. Uh the thing that you get to observe J. Uh the thing that you get to observe is what people choose. Right? So I get is what people choose. Right? So I get is what people choose. Right? So I get to see if I give a comparison I versus J to see if I give a comparison I versus J to see if I give a comparison I versus J did they choose I or J. And so the label

[15:01] did they choose I or J. And so the label did they choose I or J. And so the label here is one if uh they choose I over J here is one if uh they choose I over J here is one if uh they choose I over J zero if they don't. Right? Right. So zero if they don't. Right? Right. So zero if they don't. Right? Right. So those are the two options and a those are the two options and a those are the two options and a pair-wise uh preference setting. Or you pair-wise uh preference setting. Or you pair-wise uh preference setting. Or you could also do this for lots of different could also do this for lots of different could also do this for lots of different choices beyond two. So you could also choices beyond two. So you could also choices beyond two. So you could also similarly model an observation of similarly model an observation of similarly model an observation of choosing one out of K options and the choosing one out of K options and the choosing one out of K options and the same exact modeling setup would work. Um same exact modeling setup would work. Um same exact modeling setup would work. Um so you get see these sort of uh discrete so you get see these sort of uh discrete so you get see these sort of uh discrete observations of what did a person pick observations of what did a person pick observations of what did a person pick across a set of different options. Uh across a set of different options. Uh across a set of different options. Uh and then the key modeling setup here. So

[15:32] and then the key modeling setup here. So and then the key modeling setup here. So observation yes no across choices what observation yes no across choices what observation yes no across choices what did they pick uh modeling we assume that did they pick uh modeling we assume that did they pick uh modeling we assume that these choices are generated by an these choices are generated by an these choices are generated by an underlying utility function there exists underlying utility function there exists underlying utility function there exists a utility uh function such that it a utility uh function such that it a utility uh function such that it describes fully the choice that people describes fully the choice that people describes fully the choice that people are making stochastically uh that people are making stochastically uh that people are making stochastically uh that people are making um and so are making um and so are making um and so um um um a bit more formalism uh you might have a bit more formalism uh you might have a bit more formalism uh you might have features so here I'm having features features so here I'm having features features so here I'm having features described generically as Z. These are

[16:04] described generically as Z. These are described generically as Z. These are variables that describe the individual variables that describe the individual variables that describe the individual attributes. They might describe also uh attributes. They might describe also uh attributes. They might describe also uh alternative choices. So you can have a alternative choices. So you can have a alternative choices. So you can have a large futurization that describes both large futurization that describes both large futurization that describes both uh individual the option that they're uh individual the option that they're uh individual the option that they're picking and instead of all other options picking and instead of all other options picking and instead of all other options a bunch of ways of doing this. We'll a bunch of ways of doing this. We'll a bunch of ways of doing this. We'll talk through some examples. Um and then talk through some examples. Um and then talk through some examples. Um and then you have uh from these features you have you have uh from these features you have you have uh from these features you have some function that match from the some function that match from the some function that match from the features to the utility. Right? So uh in features to the utility. Right? So uh in features to the utility. Right? So uh in standard machine I chose Z but you know standard machine I chose Z but you know standard machine I chose Z but you know if you want to map this to standard

[16:34] if you want to map this to standard if you want to map this to standard notation you could use X just to make notation you could use X just to make notation you could use X just to make sure no one's confused right so X is the sure no one's confused right so X is the sure no one's confused right so X is the feature of the featurization of feature of the featurization of feature of the featurization of individual and and choices uh some individual and and choices uh some individual and and choices uh some description of those choices Y is the description of those choices Y is the description of those choices Y is the label did they pick A over B uh and then label did they pick A over B uh and then label did they pick A over B uh and then I have some function mapping that goes I have some function mapping that goes I have some function mapping that goes from the inputs to the choice and the from the inputs to the choice and the from the inputs to the choice and the function mapping is assumed to be function mapping is assumed to be function mapping is assumed to be described by this utility function Okay. described by this utility function Okay. described by this utility function Okay. Um, and generally we pick some uh Um, and generally we pick some uh Um, and generally we pick some uh function class that we think is sort of

[17:04] function class that we think is sort of function class that we think is sort of a reasonable descriptor of features to a reasonable descriptor of features to a reasonable descriptor of features to uh choices or utilities that people are uh choices or utilities that people are uh choices or utilities that people are are driving people's decisions. So a are driving people's decisions. So a are driving people's decisions. So a simple example might be say a linear simple example might be say a linear simple example might be say a linear model, right? Yes. model, right? Yes. model, right? Yes. &gt;&gt; So the the Z vectors since it captures &gt;&gt; So the the Z vectors since it captures &gt;&gt; So the the Z vectors since it captures just the individual attributes, does it just the individual attributes, does it just the individual attributes, does it need a subscript I or could it just be Z need a subscript I or could it just be Z need a subscript I or could it just be Z of N? of N? of N? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh does your Z &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh does your Z &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh does your Z vector need to vector need to vector need to uh capture attributes of item I or uh

[17:36] uh capture attributes of item I or uh uh capture attributes of item I or uh sort of how rich essentially does does sort of how rich essentially does does sort of how rich essentially does does he have to be? Um in most applications he have to be? Um in most applications he have to be? Um in most applications particularly for classic choice models Z particularly for classic choice models Z particularly for classic choice models Z can be fairly rich. So it can uh often can be fairly rich. So it can uh often can be fairly rich. So it can uh often it's the individual uh so there's maybe it's the individual uh so there's maybe it's the individual uh so there's maybe a need for additional subjects. If a need for additional subjects. If a need for additional subjects. If you're using this for multiple you're using this for multiple you're using this for multiple individuals that would be I don't know N individuals that would be I don't know N individuals that would be I don't know N for the for the for the okay you can imagine using N for the okay you can imagine using N for the okay you can imagine using N for the like sample I for item I item J and then like sample I for item I item J and then like sample I for item I item J and then maybe K for individual or something like maybe K for individual or something like maybe K for individual or something like that. Um often the Z variables uh in

[18:09] that. Um often the Z variables uh in that. Um often the Z variables uh in sort of classic settings will be some sort of classic settings will be some sort of classic settings will be some large futurization of generally the large futurization of generally the large futurization of generally the individual attributes the item and also individual attributes the item and also individual attributes the item and also alternative choices because you might alternative choices because you might alternative choices because you might also often uh also often uh also often uh one the oh I'll give an example in a bit one the oh I'll give an example in a bit one the oh I'll give an example in a bit but um your choice may be driven not but um your choice may be driven not but um your choice may be driven not only by the item that you like but what only by the item that you like but what only by the item that you like but what else you're comparing it to and so to else you're comparing it to and so to else you're comparing it to and so to capture that in intuition you might have capture that in intuition you might have capture that in intuition you might have the alternative ative sort of other the alternative ative sort of other the alternative ative sort of other choices alternatives as part of the choices alternatives as part of the choices alternatives as part of the featurization Z and what you want your

[18:40] featurization Z and what you want your featurization Z and what you want your model to capture. So hopefully what beta model to capture. So hopefully what beta model to capture. So hopefully what beta uh when you fit your model captures is uh when you fit your model captures is uh when you fit your model captures is how all these features interact uh to how all these features interact uh to how all these features interact uh to define the utility and the probability define the utility and the probability define the utility and the probability of picking item I over item J. of picking item I over item J. of picking item I over item J. &gt;&gt; Also represents the individual. &gt;&gt; Also represents the individual. &gt;&gt; Also represents the individual. Uh here we're using Ann as the sample Uh here we're using Ann as the sample Uh here we're using Ann as the sample but uh nothing breaks if you make N but uh nothing breaks if you make N but uh nothing breaks if you make N individual. individual. individual. &gt;&gt; Let's make it individual and make &gt;&gt; Let's make it individual and make &gt;&gt; Let's make it individual and make consistent. That's fine. Yes. consistent. That's fine. Yes. consistent. That's fine. Yes. &gt;&gt; So why n i is one if n person picks i

[19:14] &gt;&gt; So why n i is one if n person picks i &gt;&gt; So why n i is one if n person picks i item over everything else. But then item over everything else. But then item over everything else. But then there can be cases where y n i is zero there can be cases where y n i is zero there can be cases where y n i is zero for all i like there is no strict for all i like there is no strict for all i like there is no strict preference for one item. preference for one item. preference for one item. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh what happens &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh what happens &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh what happens it would actually be interesting to talk it would actually be interesting to talk it would actually be interesting to talk through. So you know what happens if through. So you know what happens if through. So you know what happens if there is no choice and how do can I there is no choice and how do can I there is no choice and how do can I build in uh a model if sort of uh an build in uh a model if sort of uh an build in uh a model if sort of uh an individual doesn't pick any item over individual doesn't pick any item over individual doesn't pick any item over the alternatives. I think that's what

[19:44] the alternatives. I think that's what the alternatives. I think that's what you're saying. you're saying. you're saying. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um this basic model assumes this basic model assumes this basic model assumes uh uh uh it assumes that you have picked between it assumes that you have picked between it assumes that you have picked between the alternatives if you wanted to break the alternatives if you wanted to break the alternatives if you wanted to break it. Um yeah, it'd be awkward to not have a yeah, it'd be awkward to not have a choice across the K items for at least choice across the K items for at least choice across the K items for at least this class of models. I don't have a this class of models. I don't have a this class of models. I don't have a good intuition. Yes, good intuition. Yes, good intuition. Yes, &gt;&gt; we're going to say the same thing maybe. &gt;&gt; we're going to say the same thing maybe. &gt;&gt; we're going to say the same thing maybe. Okay.

[20:14] Okay. Okay. &gt;&gt; One option is just to abstain and treat &gt;&gt; One option is just to abstain and treat &gt;&gt; One option is just to abstain and treat that as a U. that as a U. that as a U. &gt;&gt; Sure. You can have a choice that's &gt;&gt; Sure. You can have a choice that's &gt;&gt; Sure. You can have a choice that's abstain and use. Is that what you're abstain and use. Is that what you're abstain and use. Is that what you're saying? Sure. That's an option. Uh I'm saying? Sure. That's an option. Uh I'm saying? Sure. That's an option. Uh I'm avoiding that extension for now. But avoiding that extension for now. But avoiding that extension for now. But actually maybe that's a Sure. Yes. Okay. actually maybe that's a Sure. Yes. Okay. actually maybe that's a Sure. Yes. Okay. So a good way to handle this is an So a good way to handle this is an So a good way to handle this is an abstain option. And so you're modeling abstain option. And so you're modeling abstain option. And so you're modeling also the choice to abstain. Um Sure. Uh, also the choice to abstain. Um Sure. Uh, also the choice to abstain. Um Sure. Uh, other questions I think came up from other questions I think came up from other questions I think came up from that.

[20:46] Cool. Thanks for the signal there. Okay. Cool. Thanks for the signal there. Okay. Any questions on the overall setup? Any questions on the overall setup? Any questions on the overall setup? Maybe a quick sort of um Maybe a quick sort of um Maybe a quick sort of um if I gave you data that look like this if I gave you data that look like this if I gave you data that look like this and I fixed the function, uh, and I fixed the function, uh, and I fixed the function, uh, how might you actually fit a model? But how might you actually fit a model? But how might you actually fit a model? But what does fit in a bondo mean? And then what does fit in a bondo mean? And then what does fit in a bondo mean? And then how might you fit a model on this data? how might you fit a model on this data? how might you fit a model on this data? It's a intentionally naive question, but It's a intentionally naive question, but It's a intentionally naive question, but I just want to make sure we're on the I just want to make sure we're on the I just want to make sure we're on the same page.

[21:24] It's the obvious thing. It's the obvious thing. Okay. So, what what do we need to Okay. So, what what do we need to Okay. So, what what do we need to estimate? I guess given a bunch of data estimate? I guess given a bunch of data estimate? I guess given a bunch of data uh samples, data samples here being uh samples, data samples here being uh samples, data samples here being choices of Z or observations of Z and Y, choices of Z or observations of Z and Y, choices of Z or observations of Z and Y, but that becomes your data sets. but that becomes your data sets. but that becomes your data sets. &gt;&gt; Yes, we want to output maybe a &gt;&gt; Yes, we want to output maybe a &gt;&gt; Yes, we want to output maybe a distribution of like the probability of distribution of like the probability of distribution of like the probability of Y being one for particular choice I. So Y being one for particular choice I. So Y being one for particular choice I. So you need to do this ton of ways to like

[21:55] do linear model do linear model &gt;&gt; indeed go from Z to Y. &gt;&gt; indeed go from Z to Y. &gt;&gt; indeed go from Z to Y. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So uh if you choose a simple &gt;&gt; Yeah. So uh if you choose a simple &gt;&gt; Yeah. So uh if you choose a simple linear model like this then the thing linear model like this then the thing linear model like this then the thing you need to fit the thing that your you need to fit the thing that your you need to fit the thing that your learning machine learning process will learning machine learning process will learning machine learning process will do is find uh a setting for beta which do is find uh a setting for beta which do is find uh a setting for beta which will give you uh a model such that given will give you uh a model such that given will give you uh a model such that given a new individual uh I now have a way to a new individual uh I now have a way to a new individual uh I now have a way to predict their choice. Right? Cuz if I predict their choice. Right? Cuz if I predict their choice. Right? Cuz if I now give you if I if I know beta now give you if I if I know beta now give you if I if I know beta then given a new item for an individual

[22:25] then given a new item for an individual then given a new item for an individual I will that new item for an individual I will that new item for an individual I will that new item for an individual fixes fixes fixes Z right so that fixes this part of the Z right so that fixes this part of the Z right so that fixes this part of the model from that I can immediately model from that I can immediately model from that I can immediately compute H at least expected value of H I compute H at least expected value of H I compute H at least expected value of H I may not may or may not have uh a noise may not may or may not have uh a noise may not may or may not have uh a noise model over or you know this won't model over or you know this won't model over or you know this won't capture the noise but will capture sort capture the noise but will capture sort capture the noise but will capture sort of expected value of ut of h is exactly of expected value of ut of h is exactly of expected value of ut of h is exactly the utility function. Um, and I can the utility function. Um, and I can the utility function. Um, and I can predict the choice that they would make predict the choice that they would make predict the choice that they would make up to noise by just plugging in uh

[22:57] up to noise by just plugging in uh up to noise by just plugging in uh whether the H function for item I is whether the H function for item I is whether the H function for item I is bigger than the H function for item J. bigger than the H function for item J. bigger than the H function for item J. Right? That's the prediction problem I Right? That's the prediction problem I Right? That's the prediction problem I want to solve. The estimation problem is want to solve. The estimation problem is want to solve. The estimation problem is finding a setting for beta. finding a setting for beta. finding a setting for beta. So this for a linear model if I make So this for a linear model if I make So this for a linear model if I make this a neuronet network then this whole this a neuronet network then this whole this a neuronet network then this whole thing is a neuronet network model. I thing is a neuronet network model. I thing is a neuronet network model. I just need to fit that neuronet network just need to fit that neuronet network just need to fit that neuronet network model. Okay. So we'll go in in some more model. Okay. So we'll go in in some more model. Okay. So we'll go in in some more detail on what this looks like. detail on what this looks like. detail on what this looks like. Um okay so some implications of the

[23:28] Um okay so some implications of the Um okay so some implications of the choice model worth going through. So choice model worth going through. So choice model worth going through. So again remember that uh the choice model again remember that uh the choice model again remember that uh the choice model assumes a utility. It turns out that you assumes a utility. It turns out that you assumes a utility. It turns out that you don't actually estimate the utility or don't actually estimate the utility or don't actually estimate the utility or at least uh it's the information you get at least uh it's the information you get at least uh it's the information you get turns out insufficient to actually fully turns out insufficient to actually fully turns out insufficient to actually fully estimate the utility. So while this is estimate the utility. So while this is estimate the utility. So while this is written as uh once I know Z and some written as uh once I know Z and some written as uh once I know Z and some function class H I have a explicit function class H I have a explicit function class H I have a explicit utility function. It turns out that I utility function. It turns out that I utility function. It turns out that I can't tell in this model if I shift uh

[24:00] can't tell in this model if I shift uh can't tell in this model if I shift uh the well maybe the obvious easy thing is the well maybe the obvious easy thing is the well maybe the obvious easy thing is if I add some arbitrary value so I add if I add some arbitrary value so I add if I add some arbitrary value so I add some positive constants to all the hes some positive constants to all the hes some positive constants to all the hes um the choice model remains exactly the um the choice model remains exactly the um the choice model remains exactly the same right because both left and right same right because both left and right same right because both left and right hand side increase the ordering hand side increase the ordering hand side increase the ordering information will increase nothing has information will increase nothing has information will increase nothing has changed in the actual prediction of changed in the actual prediction of changed in the actual prediction of choices uh also lots of sort of choices uh also lots of sort of choices uh also lots of sort of monotonic transformations of various monotonic transformations of various monotonic transformations of various kinds end up keeping the order. And so kinds end up keeping the order. And so kinds end up keeping the order. And so all this is capturing and keeping uh uh all this is capturing and keeping uh uh all this is capturing and keeping uh uh in terms of the information you're

[24:30] in terms of the information you're in terms of the information you're actually getting is this ordering actually getting is this ordering actually getting is this ordering information across alternatives, but it information across alternatives, but it information across alternatives, but it doesn't actually tell you a precise doesn't actually tell you a precise doesn't actually tell you a precise value for what U is. This uh is a known value for what U is. This uh is a known value for what U is. This uh is a known issue with these kinds of models. This issue with these kinds of models. This issue with these kinds of models. This will come up later in some of the will come up later in some of the will come up later in some of the difficulty in getting these things to difficulty in getting these things to difficulty in getting these things to work. So in a bit more math, the thing work. So in a bit more math, the thing work. So in a bit more math, the thing that we're trying to capture is the that we're trying to capture is the that we're trying to capture is the probability of making a certain choice, probability of making a certain choice, probability of making a certain choice, picking alternative I over all the other picking alternative I over all the other picking alternative I over all the other alternatives that you could pick. Um alternatives that you could pick. Um alternatives that you could pick. Um again the key quantity and quant in uh again the key quantity and quant in uh again the key quantity and quant in uh sort of measuring our choice is the

[25:00] sort of measuring our choice is the sort of measuring our choice is the probability that the utility for item I probability that the utility for item I probability that the utility for item I is greater than utility for all other is greater than utility for all other is greater than utility for all other items. So this is this term uni is items. So this is this term uni is items. So this is this term uni is bigger than unj for all the other items. bigger than unj for all the other items. bigger than unj for all the other items. Um and as mentioned I can apply some Um and as mentioned I can apply some Um and as mentioned I can apply some transformations in particular uh I can transformations in particular uh I can transformations in particular uh I can rewrite this by just moving this to the rewrite this by just moving this to the rewrite this by just moving this to the left hand side. I can think about this left hand side. I can think about this left hand side. I can think about this as the probability of the difference as the probability of the difference as the probability of the difference being greater than zero. So scale-free being greater than zero. So scale-free being greater than zero. So scale-free invariance monotonic transformations invariance monotonic transformations invariance monotonic transformations good to convince yourself the additive good to convince yourself the additive good to convince yourself the additive one is trivial hopefully easy to see I'm

[25:30] one is trivial hopefully easy to see I'm one is trivial hopefully easy to see I'm subtracting the two. Say if I add a subtracting the two. Say if I add a subtracting the two. Say if I add a positive number the both the positive positive number the both the positive positive number the both the positive number disappears in this subtraction number disappears in this subtraction number disappears in this subtraction but it's probably useful to also but it's probably useful to also but it's probably useful to also convince yourself if I scale for convince yourself if I scale for convince yourself if I scale for instance by an arbitrary value the instance by an arbitrary value the instance by an arbitrary value the scaling will go away or all scalings scaling will go away or all scalings scaling will go away or all scalings will have equivalent choices equivalent will have equivalent choices equivalent will have equivalent choices equivalent probabilities so any global scaling or probabilities so any global scaling or probabilities so any global scaling or any global shifts uh you can also show any global shifts uh you can also show any global shifts uh you can also show that similar things would be true for so that similar things would be true for so that similar things would be true for so monotonic transformations of various monotonic transformations of various monotonic transformations of various kinds kinds kinds um so this causes issues

[26:01] um so this causes issues um so this causes issues uh you know if I fix the context where uh you know if I fix the context where uh you know if I fix the context where you expect sort of all the alternatives you expect sort of all the alternatives you expect sort of all the alternatives are comparable uh then things are fine. are comparable uh then things are fine. are comparable uh then things are fine. Uh but often we want to sort of take a Uh but often we want to sort of take a Uh but often we want to sort of take a utility model trained on sort of some utility model trained on sort of some utility model trained on sort of some model some context another utility model model some context another utility model model some context another utility model trained in a different a different data trained in a different a different data trained in a different a different data set different context and somehow set different context and somehow set different context and somehow compare them because the H that we learn compare them because the H that we learn compare them because the H that we learn the U uh output is only good up to the U uh output is only good up to the U uh output is only good up to monitoring transformations. It turns out monitoring transformations. It turns out monitoring transformations. It turns out that you sort of generally can't compare

[26:31] that you sort of generally can't compare that you sort of generally can't compare across contexts uh in a um sort of across contexts uh in a um sort of across contexts uh in a um sort of meaningful way. um in the literature uh meaningful way. um in the literature uh meaningful way. um in the literature uh this is I don't see this that much in this is I don't see this that much in this is I don't see this that much in the machine learning literature but if the machine learning literature but if the machine learning literature but if you look at economics and other areas you look at economics and other areas you look at economics and other areas psychology that uses choice models often psychology that uses choice models often psychology that uses choice models often there is a assumption of a normalization there is a assumption of a normalization there is a assumption of a normalization uh that allows for comparability now uh that allows for comparability now uh that allows for comparability now critiqueable about whether this is uh critiqueable about whether this is uh critiqueable about whether this is uh sufficient or not or if you need more sufficient or not or if you need more sufficient or not or if you need more information to nail things down uh but

[27:04] information to nail things down uh but information to nail things down uh but as in sort of standard practice you as in sort of standard practice you as in sort of standard practice you might for instance assume assume the might for instance assume assume the might for instance assume assume the scale and standardized variance as a way scale and standardized variance as a way scale and standardized variance as a way to get a utility function that you know to get a utility function that you know to get a utility function that you know is on the same scale and thus comparable is on the same scale and thus comparable is on the same scale and thus comparable across different contexts. Okay. Um so one example of this is when Okay. Um so one example of this is when I just have two options. Um so hopefully I just have two options. Um so hopefully I just have two options. Um so hopefully um we get to the point where again this um we get to the point where again this um we get to the point where again this feels familiar because some of the setup feels familiar because some of the setup feels familiar because some of the setup seems a bit might seem a bit for uh

[27:35] seems a bit might seem a bit for uh seems a bit might seem a bit for uh unusual. So I have two options. Uh my unusual. So I have two options. Uh my unusual. So I have two options. Uh my options are options are options are uh do I pick the item or not? So I can uh do I pick the item or not? So I can uh do I pick the item or not? So I can just ignore sort of the J index for just ignore sort of the J index for just ignore sort of the J index for alternatives. Um and so I have alternatives. Um and so I have alternatives. Um and so I have characteristics for individual and item characteristics for individual and item characteristics for individual and item potentially and the utility function is potentially and the utility function is potentially and the utility function is the same say linear model that I did the same say linear model that I did the same say linear model that I did before. Um if I combine it with the before. Um if I combine it with the before. Um if I combine it with the mapping from utility to choice. So just mapping from utility to choice. So just mapping from utility to choice. So just like before it's just a single utility

[28:05] like before it's just a single utility like before it's just a single utility number. Is it greater than zero or less number. Is it greater than zero or less number. Is it greater than zero or less than zero? And if it's greater than zero than zero? And if it's greater than zero than zero? And if it's greater than zero I uh I'm modeling the choice of picking I uh I'm modeling the choice of picking I uh I'm modeling the choice of picking the item or not picking the item. um the item or not picking the item. um the item or not picking the item. um easy to show uh and good exercise for easy to show uh and good exercise for easy to show uh and good exercise for yourself uh that if the noise yourself uh that if the noise yourself uh that if the noise model is logistic what I get out as the model is logistic what I get out as the model is logistic what I get out as the probability of picking uh of making a probability of picking uh of making a probability of picking uh of making a choice of the item is going to be sort choice of the item is going to be sort choice of the item is going to be sort of a familiar hopefully logistic

[28:35] of a familiar hopefully logistic of a familiar hopefully logistic function that you might see in logistic function that you might see in logistic function that you might see in logistic regression. Um and in fact uh if I regression. Um and in fact uh if I regression. Um and in fact uh if I wanted to if I get a data set of choices wanted to if I get a data set of choices wanted to if I get a data set of choices over alternatives now I want to fit this over alternatives now I want to fit this over alternatives now I want to fit this model the actual algorithm I would use model the actual algorithm I would use model the actual algorithm I would use is literally logistic regression right is literally logistic regression right is literally logistic regression right so I'd have a bunch of features say we so I'd have a bunch of features say we so I'd have a bunch of features say we use SN for the features here bunch of use SN for the features here bunch of use SN for the features here bunch of features for every choice bunch of features for every choice bunch of features for every choice bunch of observations of did I choose or not observations of did I choose or not observations of did I choose or not choose the item across the uh set of choose the item across the uh set of choose the item across the uh set of data sets so now I have labels that are data sets so now I have labels that are data sets so now I have labels that are binary yes no have inputs that are some

[29:07] binary yes no have inputs that are some binary yes no have inputs that are some vector set of vector vectors SN and I vector set of vector vectors SN and I vector set of vector vectors SN and I would literally fit logistic regression would literally fit logistic regression would literally fit logistic regression model and this would give me my model and this would give me my model and this would give me my parameters beta, parameters beta, parameters beta, right? And this will allow me then for a right? And this will allow me then for a right? And this will allow me then for a new uh new uh new uh for a new individual with the same set for a new individual with the same set for a new individual with the same set of items, I can now fit plug in uh the S of items, I can now fit plug in uh the S of items, I can now fit plug in uh the S for the individual, push it through the for the individual, push it through the for the individual, push it through the beta and then sort of make a prediction beta and then sort of make a prediction beta and then sort of make a prediction on whether they would choose the item or on whether they would choose the item or on whether they would choose the item or not. not. not. So uh as mentioned in the last class

[29:37] So uh as mentioned in the last class So uh as mentioned in the last class hopefully logistic regression is hopefully logistic regression is hopefully logistic regression is familiar again sort of ML 101. So you familiar again sort of ML 101. So you familiar again sort of ML 101. So you would just sort of run the same would just sort of run the same would just sort of run the same machinery that you would always run for machinery that you would always run for machinery that you would always run for fitting logistic regression but now the fitting logistic regression but now the fitting logistic regression but now the data that you're fitting on are these data that you're fitting on are these data that you're fitting on are these sort of choices over or binary choice. sort of choices over or binary choice. sort of choices over or binary choice. Um okay uh you could do also lots of fun Um okay uh you could do also lots of fun Um okay uh you could do also lots of fun fancy things. So an obvious maybe fancy things. So an obvious maybe fancy things. So an obvious maybe interesting one uh that you might have interesting one uh that you might have interesting one uh that you might have seen is choose a different noise model. seen is choose a different noise model. seen is choose a different noise model. Um so suppose you then pick the sort of

[30:09] Um so suppose you then pick the sort of Um so suppose you then pick the sort of standard normal instead of logistic then standard normal instead of logistic then standard normal instead of logistic then you get uh where you can show that then you get uh where you can show that then you get uh where you can show that then you get sort of a probit type of uh you get sort of a probit type of uh you get sort of a probit type of uh binary choice model as opposed to binary choice model as opposed to binary choice model as opposed to logistic model. logistic model. logistic model. &gt;&gt; Okay. Any questions on this? I just had a question earlier about like I just had a question earlier about like what happens if someone has no what happens if someone has no what happens if someone has no preference. I don't understand how like preference. I don't understand how like preference. I don't understand how like this would account for that because it this would account for that because it this would account for that because it seems like if someone had no preference seems like if someone had no preference seems like if someone had no preference like when you learn your beta parameter like when you learn your beta parameter like when you learn your beta parameter that still results in like some inferred that still results in like some inferred that still results in like some inferred preference.

[30:40] preference. preference. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So using the so one you can't do &gt;&gt; Yeah. So using the so one you can't do &gt;&gt; Yeah. So using the so one you can't do or or or it wouldn't fit well in the binary it wouldn't fit well in the binary it wouldn't fit well in the binary setting. So you'd probably need at least setting. So you'd probably need at least setting. So you'd probably need at least three options like choose don't choose three options like choose don't choose three options like choose don't choose no preference. I guess if you wanted to no preference. I guess if you wanted to no preference. I guess if you wanted to use the uh what we discussed as an use the uh what we discussed as an use the uh what we discussed as an alternative setup for this problem was I alternative setup for this problem was I alternative setup for this problem was I I create a new choice quote unquote I create a new choice quote unquote I create a new choice quote unquote choice which is no choice and just add choice which is no choice and just add choice which is no choice and just add that into my so I now have a triplet of that into my so I now have a triplet of that into my so I now have a triplet of possible options if you do it that way possible options if you do it that way possible options if you do it that way then uh

[31:10] then uh then uh so I you can't use this model we'll do so I you can't use this model we'll do so I you can't use this model we'll do something slightly different we'll show something slightly different we'll show something slightly different we'll show in a second it fits into the general in a second it fits into the general in a second it fits into the general context you just have to like modify for context you just have to like modify for context you just have to like modify for three options um your question was also three options um your question was also three options um your question was also So I guess you're implicitly modeling a So I guess you're implicitly modeling a So I guess you're implicitly modeling a choice of no choice. Yes, that's the choice of no choice. Yes, that's the choice of no choice. Yes, that's the sort of trade-off of using that kind of sort of trade-off of using that kind of sort of trade-off of using that kind of setup for this model. setup for this model. setup for this model. &gt;&gt; Um how do we think about two samples or &gt;&gt; Um how do we think about two samples or &gt;&gt; Um how do we think about two samples or two individuals having different choice? two individuals having different choice? two individuals having different choice? Would that lead to different Would that lead to different Would that lead to different learning for different individuals?

[31:40] learning for different individuals? learning for different individuals? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh you know how &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh you know how &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is uh you know how do I handle multiple individuals and uh do I handle multiple individuals and uh do I handle multiple individuals and uh sort of potentially making different sort of potentially making different sort of potentially making different choices. So few different options. One choices. So few different options. One choices. So few different options. One again like everything else in machine again like everything else in machine again like everything else in machine learning you make a explicit modeling learning you make a explicit modeling learning you make a explicit modeling assumption. Uh and modeling assumption assumption. Uh and modeling assumption assumption. Uh and modeling assumption matters and will have an impact on the matters and will have an impact on the matters and will have an impact on the quality of results and you will make all quality of results and you will make all quality of results and you will make all these assumptions in all the ways that these assumptions in all the ways that these assumptions in all the ways that we typically make assumptions. Things we typically make assumptions. Things we typically make assumptions. Things like how many samples do I have? Uh so like how many samples do I have? Uh so

[32:10] like how many samples do I have? Uh so like am I likely to overfitit so because like am I likely to overfitit so because like am I likely to overfitit so because I make a more restrictive assumption or I make a more restrictive assumption or I make a more restrictive assumption or less restrictive assumption. Things like less restrictive assumption. Things like less restrictive assumption. Things like that. We'll talk about this briefly in a that. We'll talk about this briefly in a that. We'll talk about this briefly in a second. Um so for something like second. Um so for something like second. Um so for something like multiple individuals uh one modeling multiple individuals uh one modeling multiple individuals uh one modeling option is to assume that they all have option is to assume that they all have option is to assume that they all have the same underlying utility function. So the same underlying utility function. So the same underlying utility function. So they all make choices the same way. So I they all make choices the same way. So I they all make choices the same way. So I just think about them as multiple just think about them as multiple just think about them as multiple observations of the same underlying observations of the same underlying observations of the same underlying utility model. Another option is that utility model. Another option is that utility model. Another option is that they have different use and so uh they have different use and so uh they have different use and so uh they're at least in this model I don't they're at least in this model I don't they're at least in this model I don't get any benefit from modeling them get any benefit from modeling them get any benefit from modeling them jointly. Uh so I might as well just have

[32:40] jointly. Uh so I might as well just have jointly. Uh so I might as well just have a separate chest model for for every one a separate chest model for for every one a separate chest model for for every one of them. I could um of them. I could um of them. I could um make some other like another modeling make some other like another modeling make some other like another modeling assumption might be they have different assumption might be they have different assumption might be they have different betas but the betas are tied together in betas but the betas are tied together in betas but the betas are tied together in some way maybe additive to each other or some way maybe additive to each other or some way maybe additive to each other or across a set of individuals the set of across a set of individuals the set of across a set of individuals the set of betas is low rank for instance is betas is low rank for instance is betas is low rank for instance is another sort of implicit choice you can another sort of implicit choice you can another sort of implicit choice you can make um so sort of all of the degrees of make um so sort of all of the degrees of make um so sort of all of the degrees of freedom that you normally have I don't freedom that you normally have I don't freedom that you normally have I don't know if this is a satisfying answer but know if this is a satisfying answer but know if this is a satisfying answer but you know sort of the explicit answer is you know sort of the explicit answer is you know sort of the explicit answer is Uh

[33:15] you know the decision you make on you know the decision you make on modeling depends on what assumptions you modeling depends on what assumptions you modeling depends on what assumptions you think are reasonable to make. Trade out think are reasonable to make. Trade out think are reasonable to make. Trade out trade it off with uh sort of practical trade it off with uh sort of practical trade it off with uh sort of practical estimability things that we typically estimability things that we typically estimability things that we typically but the pragmatic choices we typically but the pragmatic choices we typically but the pragmatic choices we typically make to actually fit machine learning make to actually fit machine learning make to actually fit machine learning models. models. models. &gt;&gt; I'm a bit confused. Could you connect &gt;&gt; I'm a bit confused. Could you connect &gt;&gt; I'm a bit confused. Could you connect this slide with the last slide that the this slide with the last slide that the this slide with the last slide that the &gt;&gt; Sure. So, uh, the last slide was talking &gt;&gt; Sure. So, uh, the last slide was talking &gt;&gt; Sure. So, uh, the last slide was talking about, um, actually I think we'll about, um, actually I think we'll about, um, actually I think we'll literally do this. Oh, we did not. Okay.

[33:46] literally do this. Oh, we did not. Okay. literally do this. Oh, we did not. Okay. Um, so two slides ago, Um, so two slides ago, Um, so two slides ago, uh, I think the hopefully the series is uh, I think the hopefully the series is uh, I think the hopefully the series is clarifying. So, here we're talking about clarifying. So, here we're talking about clarifying. So, here we're talking about discrete choice over an arbitrary set discrete choice over an arbitrary set discrete choice over an arbitrary set of, uh, the key assumptions here is of, uh, the key assumptions here is of, uh, the key assumptions here is there's some collectively exhaustive, there's some collectively exhaustive, there's some collectively exhaustive, mutually exclusive and finite sets of mutually exclusive and finite sets of mutually exclusive and finite sets of options, right? And so across all these options, right? And so across all these options, right? And so across all these options, the key assumption I'm making options, the key assumption I'm making options, the key assumption I'm making is that the choice that an individual is that the choice that an individual is that the choice that an individual individual makes in a certain context individual makes in a certain context individual makes in a certain context across items is governed by some

[34:16] across items is governed by some across items is governed by some underlying utility function which is underlying utility function which is underlying utility function which is some stoastic function has a some stoastic function has a some stoastic function has a deterministic component and then some deterministic component and then some deterministic component and then some noise components and my goal in learning noise components and my goal in learning noise components and my goal in learning is to estimate the deterministic is to estimate the deterministic is to estimate the deterministic component. So I can make sort of component. So I can make sort of component. So I can make sort of expected choices across samples. So this expected choices across samples. So this expected choices across samples. So this is uh the most general if you like this is uh the most general if you like this is uh the most general if you like this is the most general framing we're going is the most general framing we're going is the most general framing we're going to give of this problem. Uh there are to give of this problem. Uh there are to give of this problem. Uh there are other ways to generalize further but for other ways to generalize further but for other ways to generalize further but for for this class is sort of as general as for this class is sort of as general as for this class is sort of as general as we're going to go. Um and then uh the we're going to go. Um and then uh the we're going to go. Um and then uh the further restriction that we made just

[34:47] further restriction that we made just further restriction that we made just now is instead of having some k set of now is instead of having some k set of now is instead of having some k set of choices uh that you're picking within choices uh that you're picking within choices uh that you're picking within what if I just restrict you to yes or no what if I just restrict you to yes or no what if I just restrict you to yes or no picking an item. So now I have only two picking an item. So now I have only two picking an item. So now I have only two options, options, options, right? And so uh J is one or two or zero right? And so uh J is one or two or zero right? And so uh J is one or two or zero or one depending on the indexing that or one depending on the indexing that or one depending on the indexing that you like. Um you like. Um you like. Um it turns out that uh

[35:17] you don't need to keep J explicit you don't need to keep J explicit because because because uh okay actually I may see also the gap uh okay actually I may see also the gap uh okay actually I may see also the gap that was uh that was uh that was uh okay so okay so okay so um it turns out that uh you can model um it turns out that uh you can model um it turns out that uh you can model this difference explicitly. So uh I may this difference explicitly. So uh I may this difference explicitly. So uh I may have uh un2 have uh un2 have uh un2 right for the two options binary option right for the two options binary option right for the two options binary option choice uh as we show here the actual choice uh as we show here the actual choice uh as we show here the actual values values values uh don't matter only the difference

[35:47] uh don't matter only the difference uh don't matter only the difference matters I only have two options it's matters I only have two options it's matters I only have two options it's equivalent just to have a single u and equivalent just to have a single u and equivalent just to have a single u and then like a constant or zero then like a constant or zero then like a constant or zero right so once I have that is is that right so once I have that is is that right so once I have that is is that clear so far so the statement made again clear so far so the statement made again clear so far so the statement made again is general model for utility assumptions is general model for utility assumptions is general model for utility assumptions across a set of finite choices. I'm across a set of finite choices. I'm across a set of finite choices. I'm going to restrict myself to two options going to restrict myself to two options going to restrict myself to two options and I have two options. Same exact and I have two options. Same exact and I have two options. Same exact model, but I have un 1, un2, right? And model, but I have un 1, un2, right? And model, but I have un 1, un2, right? And the claim being made here, but useful to

[36:17] the claim being made here, but useful to the claim being made here, but useful to check for yourself offline is that this check for yourself offline is that this check for yourself offline is that this model model model with uh with uh with uh y1 y1 y1 equals the 1 z if u n1 equals the 1 z if u n1 equals the 1 z if u n1 is greater than u n2 is greater than u n2 is greater than u n2 and then otherwise and then otherwise and then otherwise is equivalence in utility model world. is equivalence in utility model world. is equivalence in utility model world. is no different from the model YN1 is is no different from the model YN1 is is no different from the model YN1 is equal to one if say let's call this

[36:51] equal to one if say let's call this equal to one if say let's call this utild utild utild n is greater than zero and zero n is greater than zero and zero n is greater than zero and zero otherwise otherwise otherwise where utild where utild where utild if you can see okay you can still see it if you can see okay you can still see it if you can see okay you can still see it utild n is equal to what we were calling utild n is equal to what we were calling utild n is equal to what we were calling un1 minus un2 and the reason that we can do this is and the reason that we can do this is that We know that uh utility functions that We know that uh utility functions that We know that uh utility functions or this whole setup is uh scale or this whole setup is uh scale or this whole setup is uh scale invariance, moment time variance and all invariance, moment time variance and all invariance, moment time variance and all that matters in sort of the models are

[37:23] that matters in sort of the models are that matters in sort of the models are essentially like the differences across essentially like the differences across essentially like the differences across the utilities. And so it's sort of the utilities. And so it's sort of the utilities. And so it's sort of equivalent to just collapse things out equivalent to just collapse things out equivalent to just collapse things out and so we can collapse them out and if and so we can collapse them out and if and so we can collapse them out and if you do then uh you end up with this you do then uh you end up with this you do then uh you end up with this model which is exactly the thing on the model which is exactly the thing on the model which is exactly the thing on the board which is the binary version of the board which is the binary version of the board which is the binary version of the general case. general case. general case. Is that clear? Thank you. It's a good Is that clear? Thank you. It's a good Is that clear? Thank you. It's a good question. Uh any other questions on question. Uh any other questions on question. Uh any other questions on this? this? this? Okay. So again, hopefully it's even more Okay. So again, hopefully it's even more Okay. So again, hopefully it's even more clear. You know, literally I would run

[37:53] clear. You know, literally I would run clear. You know, literally I would run logistic regression on a data set that logistic regression on a data set that logistic regression on a data set that looks like this. This would give me a looks like this. This would give me a looks like this. This would give me a choice of like a setting of beta and I choice of like a setting of beta and I choice of like a setting of beta and I would use this beta to make predictions would use this beta to make predictions would use this beta to make predictions of choices in the future. of choices in the future. of choices in the future. Okay. Um so let's complicate things a Okay. Um so let's complicate things a Okay. Um so let's complicate things a little bit more. Um so little bit more. Um so little bit more. Um so uh we can have a slightly more uh we can have a slightly more uh we can have a slightly more interesting model. Uh now again I keep interesting model. Uh now again I keep interesting model. Uh now again I keep the two choices and I'm going to allow the two choices and I'm going to allow the two choices and I'm going to allow the utility uh to say depend explicitly

[38:25] the utility uh to say depend explicitly the utility uh to say depend explicitly on on on uh well just like before features of uh well just like before features of uh well just like before features of item one versus item two. So actually item one versus item two. So actually item one versus item two. So actually very similar to this model will end up very similar to this model will end up very similar to this model will end up in a similar place. Um and so in a similar place. Um and so in a similar place. Um and so uh uh uh you know I can make different choices you know I can make different choices you know I can make different choices for the noise terms. Uh one choice for the noise terms. Uh one choice for the noise terms. Uh one choice that's convenient is ID extreme value that's convenient is ID extreme value that's convenient is ID extreme value for the different noise terms for item for the different noise terms for item for the different noise terms for item one and item two. Um if I do that and I one and item two. Um if I do that and I one and item two. Um if I do that and I do a bit of sort of massaging on the do a bit of sort of massaging on the do a bit of sort of massaging on the map. Uh the massaging here is I'm going

[38:56] map. Uh the massaging here is I'm going map. Uh the massaging here is I'm going from just to be clear on this. I'm going from just to be clear on this. I'm going from just to be clear on this. I'm going from this statement which is the utility from this statement which is the utility from this statement which is the utility is given by this and this is the option is given by this and this is the option is given by this and this is the option yes or no and I want to understand what yes or no and I want to understand what yes or no and I want to understand what is the probability of y equals 1 which is the probability of y equals 1 which is the probability of y equals 1 which is exactly equal to the probability of is exactly equal to the probability of is exactly equal to the probability of un z greater than zero right so I'm just un z greater than zero right so I'm just un z greater than zero right so I'm just actually literally working that out and actually literally working that out and actually literally working that out and to do that I'm going to plug in this to do that I'm going to plug in this to do that I'm going to plug in this function into the un and sort of see function into the un and sort of see function into the un and sort of see what the um algebra works out to so if I what the um algebra works out to so if I what the um algebra works out to so if I do that in this setting I can write the

[39:27] do that in this setting I can write the do that in this setting I can write the solution a couple of different ways. One solution a couple of different ways. One solution a couple of different ways. One way is to keep the utility separate. So way is to keep the utility separate. So way is to keep the utility separate. So I have uh probability of choosing item I have uh probability of choosing item I have uh probability of choosing item one is sort of e to the beta for item one is sort of e to the beta for item one is sort of e to the beta for item one plus you know normalizing constants one plus you know normalizing constants one plus you know normalizing constants to make sure they sum to one. Just like to make sure they sum to one. Just like to make sure they sum to one. Just like I showed here, you can do the exact same I showed here, you can do the exact same I showed here, you can do the exact same trick. Uh you can do this different ways trick. Uh you can do this different ways trick. Uh you can do this different ways of doing this. But if I have a shared of doing this. But if I have a shared of doing this. But if I have a shared beta, so I assume the parameters are the beta, so I assume the parameters are the beta, so I assume the parameters are the same, then this is exactly equivalent to same, then this is exactly equivalent to same, then this is exactly equivalent to uh normalizing out the numerator term uh

[40:00] uh normalizing out the numerator term uh uh normalizing out the numerator term uh so that you get one over one plus beta 1 so that you get one over one plus beta 1 so that you get one over one plus beta 1 -2. So uh where might you have seen -2. So uh where might you have seen -2. So uh where might you have seen this? uh the most likely place you've this? uh the most likely place you've this? uh the most likely place you've seen this is if you you've worked seen this is if you you've worked seen this is if you you've worked through the math of doing multiclass through the math of doing multiclass through the math of doing multiclass uh logistic regression uh and you sort uh logistic regression uh and you sort uh logistic regression uh and you sort of work through what it looks like so of work through what it looks like so of work through what it looks like so you can either do a multiclass but I you can either do a multiclass but I you can either do a multiclass but I allow uh sort of some default class and allow uh sort of some default class and allow uh sort of some default class and you can show that all the weights will you can show that all the weights will you can show that all the weights will look like differences or you can look at look like differences or you can look at look like differences or you can look at multiclass loggression and ask what

[40:30] multiclass loggression and ask what multiclass loggression and ask what happens if I reduce it to just binary happens if I reduce it to just binary happens if I reduce it to just binary options across choosing between two options across choosing between two options across choosing between two options exact exam exact same math So uh options exact exam exact same math So uh options exact exam exact same math So uh if you have done that this may be if you have done that this may be if you have done that this may be familiar if you haven't useful exercise familiar if you haven't useful exercise familiar if you haven't useful exercise and uh we may test stuff like this and uh we may test stuff like this and uh we may test stuff like this actually to make sure uh sort of easy it actually to make sure uh sort of easy it actually to make sure uh sort of easy it should be straightforward sort of uh if should be straightforward sort of uh if should be straightforward sort of uh if it's not we we should work through it uh it's not we we should work through it uh it's not we we should work through it uh manipulations of algebra yes manipulations of algebra yes manipulations of algebra yes &gt;&gt; in real life is it like a valid &gt;&gt; in real life is it like a valid &gt;&gt; in real life is it like a valid realistic assumption that the noise is realistic assumption that the noise is realistic assumption that the noise is like I distributed like I distributed like I distributed &gt;&gt; yeah so excellent question uh so you

[41:03] &gt;&gt; yeah so excellent question uh so you &gt;&gt; yeah so excellent question uh so you know just are is the noise being know just are is the noise being know just are is the noise being independent uh a realistic assumption. independent uh a realistic assumption. independent uh a realistic assumption. So what this means in this context is So what this means in this context is So what this means in this context is that uh any randomness in uh the choice that uh any randomness in uh the choice that uh any randomness in uh the choice of item one is independent of the of item one is independent of the of item one is independent of the randomness in the choice of item two. Um randomness in the choice of item two. Um randomness in the choice of item two. Um in real settings maybe in real settings maybe in real settings maybe uh there's actually some correlation uh there's actually some correlation uh there's actually some correlation between the two. um the math gets a bit

[41:33] between the two. um the math gets a bit between the two. um the math gets a bit more complicated. Uh but you know with more complicated. Uh but you know with more complicated. Uh but you know with modern tools it's actually not that much modern tools it's actually not that much modern tools it's actually not that much more difficult to do it. Um more difficult to do it. Um more difficult to do it. Um yeah we'll mention some approaches that yeah we'll mention some approaches that yeah we'll mention some approaches that you might for instance you know you you might for instance you know you you might for instance you know you could do some the obvious thing to do could do some the obvious thing to do could do some the obvious thing to do would be maybe a hierarchical model with would be maybe a hierarchical model with would be maybe a hierarchical model with like parameters uh for the noise epsilon like parameters uh for the noise epsilon like parameters uh for the noise epsilon one epilon 2 and then say maybe one epilon 2 and then say maybe one epilon 2 and then say maybe something hierarchical that capt something hierarchical that capt something hierarchical that capt captures the correlation and try to captures the correlation and try to captures the correlation and try to estimate that uh I think that's a very estimate that uh I think that's a very estimate that uh I think that's a very reasonable modeling assumption uh in

[42:03] reasonable modeling assumption uh in reasonable modeling assumption uh in practice and what you see in most practice and what you see in most practice and what you see in most applications is this ID assumption applications is this ID assumption applications is this ID assumption &gt;&gt; um but you know just like we make ID &gt;&gt; um but you know just like we make ID &gt;&gt; um but you know just like we make ID assumptions everywhere pragmatically and assumptions everywhere pragmatically and assumptions everywhere pragmatically and sort of things sort of work well enough. sort of things sort of work well enough. sort of things sort of work well enough. Uh it's probably not reality but also Uh it's probably not reality but also Uh it's probably not reality but also the sort of other things broken that are the sort of other things broken that are the sort of other things broken that are not reality here. So I'm intentionally not reality here. So I'm intentionally not reality here. So I'm intentionally anchoring on and I like the question anchoring on and I like the question anchoring on and I like the question because again I want to make clear that because again I want to make clear that because again I want to make clear that you know as designers in the system you know as designers in the system you know as designers in the system you're making choices about models. Uh you're making choices about models. Uh you're making choices about models. Uh and like always, you know, the closer

[42:35] and like always, you know, the closer and like always, you know, the closer your mo your modeling choices are to your mo your modeling choices are to your mo your modeling choices are to reality, you know, the sort of more reality, you know, the sort of more reality, you know, the sort of more accurate the models will be. Um but accurate the models will be. Um but accurate the models will be. Um but there's also generally trade-offs for there's also generally trade-offs for there's also generally trade-offs for things like sample size and so pragmatic things like sample size and so pragmatic things like sample size and so pragmatic choices that actually allow you to fit choices that actually allow you to fit choices that actually allow you to fit things. So are we getting ground truth? things. So are we getting ground truth? things. So are we getting ground truth? You know, probably not. But often this You know, probably not. But often this You know, probably not. But often this is a reasonable approximation. is a reasonable approximation. is a reasonable approximation. &gt;&gt; So I'm just trying to &gt;&gt; So I'm just trying to &gt;&gt; So I'm just trying to figure all this out. So when we started figure all this out. So when we started figure all this out. So when we started it if we can go back.

[43:10] So here it's like uh like someone has a So here it's like uh like someone has a choice between like let's say five cars. choice between like let's say five cars. choice between like let's say five cars. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And you're trying to figure out for a &gt;&gt; And you're trying to figure out for a &gt;&gt; And you're trying to figure out for a particular car you're trying to like particular car you're trying to like particular car you're trying to like figure out something like because it's figure out something like because it's figure out something like because it's like you're matching uh I with all the like you're matching uh I with all the like you're matching uh I with all the others. And then in the next slide, if others. And then in the next slide, if others. And then in the next slide, if you go here, we then move to a scenario you go here, we then move to a scenario you go here, we then move to a scenario where the only option the person has is where the only option the person has is where the only option the person has is whether he has to choose this color or whether he has to choose this color or whether he has to choose this color or not. And there's no other cars. not. And there's no other cars. not. And there's no other cars. &gt;&gt; Uh you could you could use it for either &gt;&gt; Uh you could you could use it for either &gt;&gt; Uh you could you could use it for either the choose or not choose. You can also

[43:41] the choose or not choose. You can also the choose or not choose. You can also do the same exact model for uh choose A do the same exact model for uh choose A do the same exact model for uh choose A or B. There only two options. So the or B. There only two options. So the or B. There only two options. So the math for those two settings are exactly math for those two settings are exactly math for those two settings are exactly the same. The reason that they're the same. The reason that they're the same. The reason that they're exactly the same is is this. Right? So I exactly the same is is this. Right? So I exactly the same is is this. Right? So I can plug in uh choice car one car two uh can plug in uh choice car one car two uh can plug in uh choice car one car two uh nothing changes in the actual utility nothing changes in the actual utility nothing changes in the actual utility that I learn if I just use a plugin that I learn if I just use a plugin that I learn if I just use a plugin estimate and the way it'll work out is estimate and the way it'll work out is estimate and the way it'll work out is exactly what's shown in this bottom exactly what's shown in this bottom exactly what's shown in this bottom slide effectively difference of the slide effectively difference of the slide effectively difference of the features

[44:16] &gt;&gt; um could you explain so I I think I sort &gt;&gt; um could you explain so I I think I sort of understand where the probability of understand where the probability of understand where the probability comes from but could you explain how comes from but could you explain how comes from but could you explain how like how you'd use then logistic like how you'd use then logistic like how you'd use then logistic regression to solve for the data regression to solve for the data regression to solve for the data Yeah. Uh so the question is how I might Yeah. Uh so the question is how I might Yeah. Uh so the question is how I might use logistic regression to solve for use logistic regression to solve for use logistic regression to solve for this. Um so

[44:46] um I'll describe something and then just um I'll describe something and then just tell me if like it clarifies enough. It tell me if like it clarifies enough. It tell me if like it clarifies enough. It will be simplistic but I don't I just will be simplistic but I don't I just will be simplistic but I don't I just mean this in trying to like uh hopefully mean this in trying to like uh hopefully mean this in trying to like uh hopefully clarify what's going on. So uh I have clarify what's going on. So uh I have clarify what's going on. So uh I have this model. I collect data. My data set this model. I collect data. My data set this model. I collect data. My data set will look like samples of samples of uh in this case no y can be uh in this case no y can be uh in this case no y can be uh I have k choices. Y can be which of uh I have k choices. Y can be which of uh I have k choices. Y can be which of the k choices I pick? Let's assume we're

[45:16] the k choices I pick? Let's assume we're the k choices I pick? Let's assume we're in the binary setting. So it's just yes in the binary setting. So it's just yes in the binary setting. So it's just yes or no. Do I pick option one? I just or no. Do I pick option one? I just or no. Do I pick option one? I just always pick option one. uh or option one always pick option one. uh or option one always pick option one. uh or option one could be one of two options or pick or could be one of two options or pick or could be one of two options or pick or not pick the one that's the same thing. not pick the one that's the same thing. not pick the one that's the same thing. Um so I have observations of uh yn Um so I have observations of uh yn Um so I have observations of uh yn and I picked a featurization and I picked a featurization and I picked a featurization uh for my data set. Um if I say I'm uh for my data set. Um if I say I'm uh for my data set. Um if I say I'm using this model um it is exactly using this model um it is exactly using this model um it is exactly equivalent to just of say x n is equal

[45:46] equivalent to just of say x n is equal equivalent to just of say x n is equal to zn1 minus zn2 to zn1 minus zn2 to zn1 minus zn2 and the way we know this is that we work and the way we know this is that we work and the way we know this is that we work through that the only differences matter through that the only differences matter through that the only differences matter or you can work through probabilities or you can work through probabilities or you can work through probabilities directly and so now I have a data set yn directly and so now I have a data set yn directly and so now I have a data set yn xn one through big n where the inputs are one through big n where the inputs are some set of vectors of features for some set of vectors of features for some set of vectors of features for every example. The outputs are binary. every example. The outputs are binary. every example. The outputs are binary. So y So y So y is in zero or one.

[46:19] is in zero or one. is in zero or one. Um so I can go into more detail but you Um so I can go into more detail but you Um so I can go into more detail but you know what I was trying to say is once I know what I was trying to say is once I know what I was trying to say is once I construct the data set I can literally construct the data set I can literally construct the data set I can literally call model that fits this is my data set call model that fits this is my data set call model that fits this is my data set get a data out right that's what I meant get a data out right that's what I meant get a data out right that's what I meant to say. Thanks. to say. Thanks. to say. Thanks. &gt;&gt; Is this clear? &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Is there like a is it why sometime we &gt;&gt; Is there like a is it why sometime we &gt;&gt; Is there like a is it why sometime we use extreme value noise as opposed to

[46:51] use extreme value noise as opposed to use extreme value noise as opposed to use standard normal? use standard normal? use standard normal? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is why do we use &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is why do we use &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is why do we use extreme value noise there's our normal extreme value noise there's our normal extreme value noise there's our normal extreme value noise is what gets you extreme value noise is what gets you extreme value noise is what gets you logistic regression. &gt;&gt; So I think the I actually don't know in &gt;&gt; So I think the I actually don't know in what order the real world they happen. what order the real world they happen. what order the real world they happen. Someone here might know uh but if I Someone here might know uh but if I Someone here might know uh but if I choose to model choices you'll use only choose to model choices you'll use only choose to model choices you'll use only regression then the ID noise that I need regression then the ID noise that I need regression then the ID noise that I need in order to make the whole math work is in order to make the whole math work is in order to make the whole math work is ID extreme value noise. Um yeah that's ID extreme value noise. Um yeah that's ID extreme value noise. Um yeah that's the that's the answer to this question.

[47:22] the that's the answer to this question. the that's the answer to this question. &gt;&gt; What is the noise actually end up &gt;&gt; What is the noise actually end up &gt;&gt; What is the noise actually end up looking like in like a wreck engine or looking like in like a wreck engine or looking like in like a wreck engine or like some of these other like voting or like some of these other like voting or like some of these other like voting or &gt;&gt; it's a good question. So this is like &gt;&gt; it's a good question. So this is like &gt;&gt; it's a good question. So this is like what is the empirical noise distribution what is the empirical noise distribution what is the empirical noise distribution that we see and does it look anything that we see and does it look anything that we see and does it look anything like the choices made here. There's very like the choices made here. There's very like the choices made here. There's very little anal I'm not aware of well in ML little anal I'm not aware of well in ML little anal I'm not aware of well in ML I've never seen the analysis which is I've never seen the analysis which is I've never seen the analysis which is probably telling about how much we probably telling about how much we probably telling about how much we examine our models. Um examine our models. Um examine our models. Um I don't know the answer to that I don't know the answer to that I don't know the answer to that question. I think it's a good question.

[47:53] question. I think it's a good question. question. I think it's a good question. It's It's It's maybe easy to check. Go ahead. Isn't it maybe easy to check. Go ahead. Isn't it maybe easy to check. Go ahead. Isn't it the case that we just don't care what it the case that we just don't care what it the case that we just don't care what it looks like? We just assume that it might looks like? We just assume that it might looks like? We just assume that it might look like this and then it gives us this look like this and then it gives us this look like this and then it gives us this model and we can work with it. Like we model and we can work with it. Like we model and we can work with it. Like we don't really try to model the noise. don't really try to model the noise. don't really try to model the noise. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So um yes and no. So like the &gt;&gt; Yeah. So um yes and no. So like the &gt;&gt; Yeah. So um yes and no. So like the comments is you know do we actually care comments is you know do we actually care comments is you know do we actually care what the actual noise is. So what the actual noise is. So what the actual noise is. So pragmatically the way and you know pragmatically the way and you know pragmatically the way and you know actually I'll go back to put on my ML actually I'll go back to put on my ML actually I'll go back to put on my ML hat. No. or even if you want to put your

[48:23] hat. No. or even if you want to put your hat. No. or even if you want to put your stats hat but there are ways to check stats hat but there are ways to check stats hat but there are ways to check goodness of fits like yeah there's a goodness of fits like yeah there's a goodness of fits like yeah there's a literal data set I can do train test literal data set I can do train test literal data set I can do train test splits I can sort of check how well did splits I can sort of check how well did splits I can sort of check how well did my model work by fitting on a subset of my model work by fitting on a subset of my model work by fitting on a subset of data checking how well it worked on a data checking how well it worked on a data checking how well it worked on a predictive set and standard ML parlance predictive set and standard ML parlance predictive set and standard ML parlance and it's to give you a sense of am I and it's to give you a sense of am I and it's to give you a sense of am I making reasonable choices I have a high making reasonable choices I have a high making reasonable choices I have a high accuracy I'm predicting on future data accuracy I'm predicting on future data accuracy I'm predicting on future data um so you know from that point of view um so you know from that point of view um so you know from that point of view you know if the error is high Then I you know if the error is high Then I you know if the error is high Then I have a bunch of interventions I could

[48:53] have a bunch of interventions I could have a bunch of interventions I could pick. I could decide that my pick. I could decide that my pick. I could decide that my featurization is incorrect. So I try to featurization is incorrect. So I try to featurization is incorrect. So I try to add a bit more features. Might decide add a bit more features. Might decide add a bit more features. Might decide what noise model is wrong. And if I'm what noise model is wrong. And if I'm what noise model is wrong. And if I'm careful, I might actually examine the careful, I might actually examine the careful, I might actually examine the noise model and see if like somehow the noise model and see if like somehow the noise model and see if like somehow the noise is uh sort of in the wrong place. noise is uh sort of in the wrong place. noise is uh sort of in the wrong place. And so I might try to change the noise And so I might try to change the noise And so I might try to change the noise model so that it better fit my data. Uh model so that it better fit my data. Uh model so that it better fit my data. Uh I might try a more sophisticated I might try a more sophisticated I might try a more sophisticated function class. So here's linear models, function class. So here's linear models, function class. So here's linear models, might try deep learning model, whatever. might try deep learning model, whatever. might try deep learning model, whatever. So all the standard things that you So all the standard things that you So all the standard things that you would do. So the thing I'm really trying would do. So the thing I'm really trying would do. So the thing I'm really trying to anchor because again this may look

[49:23] to anchor because again this may look to anchor because again this may look exotic is that once you set up the exotic is that once you set up the exotic is that once you set up the problem and transform things problem and transform things problem and transform things appropriately this looks literally like appropriately this looks literally like appropriately this looks literally like a standard machine learning problem. So a standard machine learning problem. So a standard machine learning problem. So like you know the work is going from the like you know the work is going from the like you know the work is going from the choice model framing to setting up in a choice model framing to setting up in a choice model framing to setting up in a in a way that sort of this looks like in a way that sort of this looks like in a way that sort of this looks like predictive estimation and all the predictive estimation and all the predictive estimation and all the standard tools that you would use from standard tools that you would use from standard tools that you would use from that setting would apply directly. So that setting would apply directly. So that setting would apply directly. So you know uh this that's the ML hat. If you know uh this that's the ML hat. If you know uh this that's the ML hat. If I'm have wear a stats hat, I might do uh I'm have wear a stats hat, I might do uh I'm have wear a stats hat, I might do uh various kinds of tests of goodness of various kinds of tests of goodness of various kinds of tests of goodness of fit. Uh I might do

[49:55] fit. Uh I might do fit. Uh I might do what else you might like to do but all what else you might like to do but all what else you might like to do but all the standard tricks in different parts the standard tricks in different parts the standard tricks in different parts of uh the ecosystem for checking whether of uh the ecosystem for checking whether of uh the ecosystem for checking whether I fit a good model or not. We just use I fit a good model or not. We just use I fit a good model or not. We just use them directly here. Um so that was I them directly here. Um so that was I them directly here. Um so that was I guess the question was initially is the guess the question was initially is the guess the question was initially is the noise model right and then a comment noise model right and then a comment noise model right and then a comment about uh do we care or not? So you know about uh do we care or not? So you know about uh do we care or not? So you know we care to the extent that we get a good we care to the extent that we get a good we care to the extent that we get a good fit at the end and however we choose to fit at the end and however we choose to fit at the end and however we choose to measure fit. Uh I work mostly in the measure fit. Uh I work mostly in the measure fit. Uh I work mostly in the machine learning world. So I would machine learning world. So I would machine learning world. So I would typically use like a train test split

[50:25] typically use like a train test split typically use like a train test split and look at out of sample uh performance and look at out of sample uh performance and look at out of sample uh performance as my measure of goodness of fit. Does that make sense to everyone or any Does that make sense to everyone or any questions? Okay. Okay. All right. Uh so you can make other All right. Uh so you can make other All right. Uh so you can make other choices. we've already already talked choices. we've already already talked choices. we've already already talked about or at least mentioned that you about or at least mentioned that you about or at least mentioned that you could say choose a standard noise could say choose a standard noise could say choose a standard noise standard Gaussian noise model. Um you standard Gaussian noise model. Um you standard Gaussian noise model. Um you know rest of it again we're just playing know rest of it again we're just playing know rest of it again we're just playing with the same objects just playing with

[50:56] with the same objects just playing with with the same objects just playing with uh things in this case mostly function uh things in this case mostly function uh things in this case mostly function class distribution noise distribution class distribution noise distribution class distribution noise distribution and uh range of items. So, you know, a and uh range of items. So, you know, a and uh range of items. So, you know, a slightly different setup. I have a set slightly different setup. I have a set slightly different setup. I have a set of items. I allow for up to J of items. I allow for up to J of items. I allow for up to J alternatives. Uh, and I use the extreme alternatives. Uh, and I use the extreme alternatives. Uh, and I use the extreme value distribution. Uh, you know, you value distribution. Uh, you know, you value distribution. Uh, you know, you could decide again this is somehow could decide again this is somehow could decide again this is somehow programmatically the right choice or you programmatically the right choice or you programmatically the right choice or you could say what I say, which is, you could say what I say, which is, you could say what I say, which is, you know, this gets you to logistic know, this gets you to logistic know, this gets you to logistic multiclass logistic regression. Um, so

[51:26] multiclass logistic regression. Um, so multiclass logistic regression. Um, so either way, I think that's fine. Um either way, I think that's fine. Um either way, I think that's fine. Um and in the same way you could replace and in the same way you could replace and in the same way you could replace extreme value noise with probit noise extreme value noise with probit noise extreme value noise with probit noise you get a the Gaussian version of the you get a the Gaussian version of the you get a the Gaussian version of the same thing. I'm mentioning this because same thing. I'm mentioning this because same thing. I'm mentioning this because these are common model modeling choices these are common model modeling choices these are common model modeling choices uh in lots of practical applications uh in lots of practical applications uh in lots of practical applications that people like to build. Okay. Uh there's a question about Okay. Uh there's a question about correlations. correlations. correlations. So uh one option if uh I'm interested in

[51:56] So uh one option if uh I'm interested in So uh one option if uh I'm interested in especially capturing correlations uh one especially capturing correlations uh one especially capturing correlations uh one good choice might be for instance assume good choice might be for instance assume good choice might be for instance assume that the noise are sort of gaussian with that the noise are sort of gaussian with that the noise are sort of gaussian with some coariance that describes how some coariance that describes how some coariance that describes how they're correlated with each other and they're correlated with each other and they're correlated with each other and now my job is to both fit uh the now my job is to both fit uh the now my job is to both fit uh the parameters of the linear model and then parameters of the linear model and then parameters of the linear model and then the sort of correlations of the noise the sort of correlations of the noise the sort of correlations of the noise and use this uh so the joints and use this uh so the joints and use this uh so the joints correlations or the structure of the correlations or the structure of the correlations or the structure of the correlations will change my fitting correlations will change my fitting correlations will change my fitting procedure a little bit. Standard tools. procedure a little bit. Standard tools. procedure a little bit. Standard tools. Uh so essentially if I go to uh I guess

[52:30] Uh so essentially if I go to uh I guess Uh so essentially if I go to uh I guess our model fitting packages or I can hear our model fitting packages or I can hear our model fitting packages or I can hear this. Well the packages are escaping me this. Well the packages are escaping me this. Well the packages are escaping me right now. I don't think scikitlearn has right now. I don't think scikitlearn has right now. I don't think scikitlearn has correlated noise but you could use um probably stats models and python would probably stats models and python would do it or use R and sort of throw it in do it or use R and sort of throw it in do it or use R and sort of throw it in any of the standard packages. questions. Oh, you could do it yourself. questions. Oh, you could do it yourself. That's also fun. Less and less That's also fun. Less and less That's also fun. Less and less necessary.

[53:04] Okay. Um, so I've mentioned this a few Okay. Um, so I've mentioned this a few times, but I just want to sort of ground times, but I just want to sort of ground times, but I just want to sort of ground this a bit more. So, now we've set up this a bit more. So, now we've set up this a bit more. So, now we've set up the problem, set up the choice model the problem, set up the choice model the problem, set up the choice model problem, said that there's a key problem, said that there's a key problem, said that there's a key assumption of an underlying true utility assumption of an underlying true utility assumption of an underlying true utility that fully describes the choices that that fully describes the choices that that fully describes the choices that people are making. And we've shown how people are making. And we've shown how people are making. And we've shown how we can convert that problem into a uh we can convert that problem into a uh we can convert that problem into a uh sort of effectively a multiclass sort of effectively a multiclass sort of effectively a multiclass problem binary in the case where we're problem binary in the case where we're problem binary in the case where we're doing making this in binary for binary doing making this in binary for binary doing making this in binary for binary choices. Um we've also explained a bit choices. Um we've also explained a bit choices. Um we've also explained a bit on degrees of freedom. So in particular

[53:34] on degrees of freedom. So in particular on degrees of freedom. So in particular like this is the obvious one differences like this is the obvious one differences like this is the obvious one differences but also monotonic transformations and but also monotonic transformations and but also monotonic transformations and the sort of the fact that you don't the sort of the fact that you don't the sort of the fact that you don't actually get a U but you get something actually get a U but you get something actually get a U but you get something monotonically uh equivalent to U because monotonically uh equivalent to U because monotonically uh equivalent to U because you can't actually fully estimate the you can't actually fully estimate the you can't actually fully estimate the monotonic transformation um at least monotonic transformation um at least monotonic transformation um at least using the standard approach. So you using the standard approach. So you using the standard approach. So you might try to use other tools to do this. might try to use other tools to do this. might try to use other tools to do this. Um we talked about uh logistic models. Um we talked about uh logistic models. Um we talked about uh logistic models. If I pick sub extreme value kinds of If I pick sub extreme value kinds of If I pick sub extreme value kinds of noise, if I use gshotion models, I get noise, if I use gshotion models, I get noise, if I use gshotion models, I get appropriate regression. Um, all the

[54:06] appropriate regression. Um, all the appropriate regression. Um, all the examples we gave use linear models. But examples we gave use linear models. But examples we gave use linear models. But you know, once I know how to set this up you know, once I know how to set this up you know, once I know how to set this up as a learning problem in this way, I can as a learning problem in this way, I can as a learning problem in this way, I can pick any model class I like. So I can pick any model class I like. So I can pick any model class I like. So I can throw in a deep learning model, uh, throw in a deep learning model, uh, throw in a deep learning model, uh, decision tree, decision tree, decision tree, uh, I don't know what's your favorite uh, I don't know what's your favorite uh, I don't know what's your favorite SVM. We don't even I don't think we SVM. We don't even I don't think we SVM. We don't even I don't think we teach SVMs in our classes anymore, but teach SVMs in our classes anymore, but teach SVMs in our classes anymore, but you know, you're cool. uh what's your you know, you're cool. uh what's your you know, you're cool. uh what's your favorite model I don't know whatever favorite model I don't know whatever favorite model I don't know whatever model you like you know throw that in model you like you know throw that in model you like you know throw that in and fit it using sort of standard and fit it using sort of standard and fit it using sort of standard fitting semantics um so you know you

[54:38] fitting semantics um so you know you fitting semantics um so you know you might use stocastic grad descent is sort might use stocastic grad descent is sort might use stocastic grad descent is sort of the hammer we like to use for fitting of the hammer we like to use for fitting of the hammer we like to use for fitting many machine learning models whatever many machine learning models whatever many machine learning models whatever optimization problem uh optimization optimization problem uh optimization optimization problem uh optimization sort of machinery that you might use in sort of machinery that you might use in sort of machinery that you might use in general you would throw this in a uh general you would throw this in a uh general you would throw this in a uh existing toolbox sole learn pietorch existing toolbox sole learn pietorch existing toolbox sole learn pietorch whatever and and sort of fits model Um whatever and and sort of fits model Um whatever and and sort of fits model Um again and again hopefully this is clear again and again hopefully this is clear again and again hopefully this is clear all of the standard decision choices all of the standard decision choices all of the standard decision choices that matter in uh trying to train good that matter in uh trying to train good that matter in uh trying to train good machine learning models matter in the

[55:09] machine learning models matter in the machine learning models matter in the same way for fitting choice models. So same way for fitting choice models. So same way for fitting choice models. So things like bias variance trade-offs, things like bias variance trade-offs, things like bias variance trade-offs, overfitting overfitting overfitting uh uh uh so you know generally you can pick more so you know generally you can pick more so you know generally you can pick more and more complex models generally if you and more complex models generally if you and more complex models generally if you function your choice model here the function your choice model here the function your choice model here the function class that you pick from function class that you pick from function class that you pick from mapping X to Y more complex it is mapping X to Y more complex it is mapping X to Y more complex it is generally the more data you you need you generally the more data you you need you generally the more data you you need you don't have enough data generally you don't have enough data generally you don't have enough data generally you overfits meaning uh actually just to overfits meaning uh actually just to overfits meaning uh actually just to double check uh can someone give me a double check uh can someone give me a double check uh can someone give me a quick description of overfitting

[55:39] quick description of overfitting quick description of overfitting make or I mean this hopefully it's make or I mean this hopefully it's make or I mean this hopefully it's familiar from a class or two ago. Yes. familiar from a class or two ago. Yes. familiar from a class or two ago. Yes. &gt;&gt; Um if you train your model on like just &gt;&gt; Um if you train your model on like just &gt;&gt; Um if you train your model on like just training data for long or like training training data for long or like training training data for long or like training and test data or no sorry training you and test data or no sorry training you and test data or no sorry training you know for long enough it's possible that know for long enough it's possible that know for long enough it's possible that it's not going to perform very well on it's not going to perform very well on it's not going to perform very well on like real world test data. like real world test data. like real world test data. &gt;&gt; That's correct. So yeah, you have good &gt;&gt; That's correct. So yeah, you have good &gt;&gt; That's correct. So yeah, you have good training uh performance, bad test training uh performance, bad test training uh performance, bad test performance because sort of model is performance because sort of model is performance because sort of model is sort of uh picked up all the nuances of sort of uh picked up all the nuances of sort of uh picked up all the nuances of test data but doesn't generalize to new

[56:09] test data but doesn't generalize to new test data but doesn't generalize to new data informally. But again, hopefully data informally. But again, hopefully data informally. But again, hopefully you've seen this before even if you've you've seen this before even if you've you've seen this before even if you've forgotten it over the summer or some of forgotten it over the summer or some of forgotten it over the summer or some of you might be using this actually in you might be using this actually in you might be using this actually in practice. Um okay, so all the standard practice. Um okay, so all the standard practice. Um okay, so all the standard stuff in terms of picking function stuff in terms of picking function stuff in terms of picking function classes, dealing with noise, modeling classes, dealing with noise, modeling classes, dealing with noise, modeling choices, all that stuff applies here. Um choices, all that stuff applies here. Um choices, all that stuff applies here. Um we talked a bit about this cross we talked a bit about this cross we talked a bit about this cross individual thing. I think you might have individual thing. I think you might have individual thing. I think you might have asked the question Um so you know very asked the question Um so you know very asked the question Um so you know very often you just do a pooling. In fact often you just do a pooling. In fact often you just do a pooling. In fact almost all the ML applications of these almost all the ML applications of these almost all the ML applications of these that I know uh most of the models don't

[56:39] that I know uh most of the models don't that I know uh most of the models don't disiguate across individuals. Uh most of disiguate across individuals. Uh most of disiguate across individuals. Uh most of the choice model psychology and the choice model psychology and the choice model psychology and economics do because they think of that economics do because they think of that economics do because they think of that as an important signal. uh I think it's as an important signal. uh I think it's as an important signal. uh I think it's something that slowly are the ML something that slowly are the ML something that slowly are the ML applications of the field of these applications of the field of these applications of the field of these toolboxes are slowly understanding might toolboxes are slowly understanding might toolboxes are slowly understanding might matter more and more but uh you know if matter more and more but uh you know if matter more and more but uh you know if individual differences matter then you individual differences matter then you individual differences matter then you might want to pick a model that has might want to pick a model that has might want to pick a model that has features not only about items but also features not only about items but also features not only about items but also like individual rating the particular like individual rating the particular like individual rating the particular item or making a choice across uh item or making a choice across uh item or making a choice across uh particular items.

[57:10] particular items. particular items. Okay. Um you can make this more Okay. Um you can make this more Okay. Um you can make this more sophisticated. So, so far we've talked sophisticated. So, so far we've talked sophisticated. So, so far we've talked about binary choices, but you might, for about binary choices, but you might, for about binary choices, but you might, for instance, want uh sort of Lyker scale instance, want uh sort of Lyker scale instance, want uh sort of Lyker scale style uh preferences. So, now I'm style uh preferences. So, now I'm style uh preferences. So, now I'm choosing uh how much I uh prefer an item choosing uh how much I uh prefer an item choosing uh how much I uh prefer an item compared to uh alternatives. So, you compared to uh alternatives. So, you compared to uh alternatives. So, you know, for instance, uh query am I know, for instance, uh query am I know, for instance, uh query am I enjoying this class so far? Uh and you enjoying this class so far? Uh and you enjoying this class so far? Uh and you might try to rank this uh one through might try to rank this uh one through might try to rank this uh one through five. And so a standard model sum like

[57:40] five. And so a standard model sum like five. And so a standard model sum like this is uh in addition to the utility this is uh in addition to the utility this is uh in addition to the utility you have these thresholds you have these thresholds you have these thresholds for uh uh not just a binary choice but for uh uh not just a binary choice but for uh uh not just a binary choice but now up to like k uh order choices now up to like k uh order choices now up to like k uh order choices simultaneously. Um so you know in simultaneously. Um so you know in simultaneously. Um so you know in addition to fitting the parameters of addition to fitting the parameters of addition to fitting the parameters of the h function you also need to find oh the h function you also need to find oh the h function you also need to find oh it depends in most uh implementations it depends in most uh implementations it depends in most uh implementations you would fit both the abcd and the h. you would fit both the abcd and the h. you would fit both the abcd and the h. It often actually works reasonably to It often actually works reasonably to It often actually works reasonably to pre-select ABCD. So pre-select the

[58:12] pre-select ABCD. So pre-select the pre-select ABCD. So pre-select the threshold and just fit the function that threshold and just fit the function that threshold and just fit the function that does the best job for those pre-selected does the best job for those pre-selected does the best job for those pre-selected thresholds. Uh again, this is set up as thresholds. Uh again, this is set up as thresholds. Uh again, this is set up as a standard or can be set up as a a standard or can be set up as a a standard or can be set up as a standard max maximum likelihood standard max maximum likelihood standard max maximum likelihood estimation problem. Use gradient estimation problem. Use gradient estimation problem. Use gradient descents with all the parameters. Okay. Uh okay. So we need to play with Okay. Uh okay. So we need to play with slides a little bit. Um but uh I can use slides a little bit. Um but uh I can use slides a little bit. Um but uh I can use this or implementing this for instance this or implementing this for instance this or implementing this for instance give you something like the ordered give you something like the ordered give you something like the ordered logic model. So linear model under the

[58:44] logic model. So linear model under the logic model. So linear model under the hood thresholds for K options. Uh I can hood thresholds for K options. Uh I can hood thresholds for K options. Uh I can work out from the utility and the work out from the utility and the work out from the utility and the threshold the probability of all the K threshold the probability of all the K threshold the probability of all the K options. Uh so probably choosing one two options. Uh so probably choosing one two options. Uh so probably choosing one two three blah blah blah and given three blah blah blah and given three blah blah blah and given observations that would fit this model. observations that would fit this model. observations that would fit this model. We'll try to fix the slides from here. We'll try to fix the slides from here. We'll try to fix the slides from here. um um um a slight alternative version of this uh a slight alternative version of this uh a slight alternative version of this uh generally called the placket loose model generally called the placket loose model generally called the placket loose model and ascribed to model that came up in and ascribed to model that came up in and ascribed to model that came up in the 70s used a ton in uh biomedical

[59:16] the 70s used a ton in uh biomedical the 70s used a ton in uh biomedical literature for say ranking it's often literature for say ranking it's often literature for say ranking it's often used for genetics applications used for genetics applications used for genetics applications um um um sometimes used in econometrics they like sometimes used in econometrics they like sometimes used in econometrics they like to call this the exploded logic model to call this the exploded logic model to call this the exploded logic model actually don't exactly know why I just actually don't exactly know why I just actually don't exactly know why I just know that this is the name uh is anyone know that this is the name uh is anyone know that this is the name uh is anyone on here who knows if not might be fun to on here who knows if not might be fun to on here who knows if not might be fun to find out. I should find out maybe and find out. I should find out maybe and find out. I should find out maybe and have this in the next version. Uh but have this in the next version. Uh but have this in the next version. Uh but you know very similar setup um but now you know very similar setup um but now you know very similar setup um but now I'm modeling the ranking over uh sort of I'm modeling the ranking over uh sort of I'm modeling the ranking over uh sort of J items. Um so again posit probability

[59:49] J items. Um so again posit probability J items. Um so again posit probability model uh the the way that plate loose model uh the the way that plate loose model uh the the way that plate loose model works is that I have this sort of model works is that I have this sort of model works is that I have this sort of cumulative sum. So this is the cumulative sum. So this is the cumulative sum. So this is the probability of the first choice given probability of the first choice given probability of the first choice given the first choice probability of the the first choice probability of the the first choice probability of the second choice. So it goes from two to second choice. So it goes from two to second choice. So it goes from two to the end given the second choice probably the end given the second choice probably the end given the second choice probably the third choice all the way to the last the third choice all the way to the last the third choice all the way to the last choice that you're making. So it's choice that you're making. So it's choice that you're making. So it's probably a sort of the ranked set of the probably a sort of the ranked set of the probably a sort of the ranked set of the options. Um and again all the other options. Um and again all the other options. Um and again all the other standard extensions that you can do uh standard extensions that you can do uh standard extensions that you can do uh these are linear models I can throw some these are linear models I can throw some these are linear models I can throw some generic function class in there. I can

[1:00:21] generic function class in there. I can generic function class in there. I can uh expand on noise instead of using sort uh expand on noise instead of using sort uh expand on noise instead of using sort of sort of extreme value style noise I of sort of extreme value style noise I of sort of extreme value style noise I might use probit noise correlated noise might use probit noise correlated noise might use probit noise correlated noise all that stuff. Okay. So, uh summarizing again what Okay. So, uh summarizing again what we've said a couple of times now. So, we've said a couple of times now. So, we've said a couple of times now. So, again the key setup in the problem is again the key setup in the problem is again the key setup in the problem is that uh you're measuring individual that uh you're measuring individual that uh you're measuring individual responses responses responses uh of choice queries the observing uh of choice queries the observing uh of choice queries the observing people making decisions about people making decisions about people making decisions about preferences. Um the key assumption being

[1:00:54] preferences. Um the key assumption being preferences. Um the key assumption being made is that this decision- making is made is that this decision- making is made is that this decision- making is governed by utility function. Um and governed by utility function. Um and governed by utility function. Um and then you make a choice about a model for then you make a choice about a model for then you make a choice about a model for that utility function. Um and once you that utility function. Um and once you that utility function. Um and once you have that uh generally you'd have have that uh generally you'd have have that uh generally you'd have features that describe the items and features that describe the items and features that describe the items and perhaps the individual and uh then you perhaps the individual and uh then you perhaps the individual and uh then you can set up the problem as a sort of can set up the problem as a sort of can set up the problem as a sort of machine learning problem and then you machine learning problem and then you machine learning problem and then you fit the parameters that model. This fit the parameters that model. This fit the parameters that model. This gives you a prediction or a model that gives you a prediction or a model that gives you a prediction or a model that you can use for prediction for future you can use for prediction for future you can use for prediction for future observations. Um and you know use observations. Um and you know use observations. Um and you know use standard like maximum likelihood you standard like maximum likelihood you

[1:01:24] standard like maximum likelihood you might add regularization all the might add regularization all the might add regularization all the standard things that you would do for standard things that you would do for standard things that you would do for the models. Any questions on modeling the models. Any questions on modeling the models. Any questions on modeling and any other setup? and any other setup? and any other setup? &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Uh the previous slide enforces counts &gt;&gt; Uh the previous slide enforces counts &gt;&gt; Uh the previous slide enforces counts not ordering. not ordering. not ordering. &gt;&gt; Uh so this is useful in settings where &gt;&gt; Uh so this is useful in settings where &gt;&gt; Uh so this is useful in settings where the observations are ranked orders. So the observations are ranked orders. So the observations are ranked orders. So what I ask a person to do is rank item what I ask a person to do is rank item what I ask a person to do is rank item one through K or one through J. I get to one through K or one through J. I get to one through K or one through J. I get to observe ranked orderings. I want a model

[1:01:56] observe ranked orderings. I want a model observe ranked orderings. I want a model for uh so every time an individual comes for uh so every time an individual comes for uh so every time an individual comes in they get J items and they get to in they get J items and they get to in they get J items and they get to order them. So the observations are order them. So the observations are order them. So the observations are these ordered uh lists and I want to these ordered uh lists and I want to these ordered uh lists and I want to probably model for the ordered lists and probably model for the ordered lists and probably model for the ordered lists and a simple probability model for the a simple probability model for the a simple probability model for the ordered list. What the bucket loose ordered list. What the bucket loose ordered list. What the bucket loose model does is uh the distribution of the model does is uh the distribution of the model does is uh the distribution of the choice of this ordered list is the choice of this ordered list is the choice of this ordered list is the property of picking the first thing on property of picking the first thing on property of picking the first thing on the list. Condition of picking the first the list. Condition of picking the first the list. Condition of picking the first thing was the property of picking the thing was the property of picking the thing was the property of picking the second thing on the list. But you're second thing on the list. But you're second thing on the list. But you're picking a second, third, fourth, all the

[1:02:26] picking a second, third, fourth, all the picking a second, third, fourth, all the way through J. And so this exactly looks way through J. And so this exactly looks way through J. And so this exactly looks like the probability of picking the like the probability of picking the like the probability of picking the first thing on the list, right? Which is first thing on the list, right? Which is first thing on the list, right? Which is a normalized sum of uh the score for the a normalized sum of uh the score for the a normalized sum of uh the score for the first thing normalized. So it's the first thing normalized. So it's the first thing normalized. So it's the probability condition on that first probability condition on that first probability condition on that first choice. I look at all the other choices. choice. I look at all the other choices. choice. I look at all the other choices. So two through J. And so this is a sum So two through J. And so this is a sum So two through J. And so this is a sum that starts at two instead of one. And I that starts at two instead of one. And I that starts at two instead of one. And I keep doing this all the way through the keep doing this all the way through the keep doing this all the way through the end. Is that clear? Okay. end. Is that clear? Okay. end. Is that clear? Okay. Good question. Thank you.

[1:02:59] Yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; Wondering if we're trying to learn &gt;&gt; Wondering if we're trying to learn &gt;&gt; Wondering if we're trying to learn preference over like say three options preference over like say three options preference over like say three options and someone has circular preferences and someone has circular preferences and someone has circular preferences what what what what happened? what happened? what happened? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So it's a great question. So the &gt;&gt; Yeah. So it's a great question. So the &gt;&gt; Yeah. So it's a great question. So the question is uh this modeling assumption question is uh this modeling assumption question is uh this modeling assumption we didn't state this explicitly. we we didn't state this explicitly. we we didn't state this explicitly. we will I think I hope actually I'm not will I think I hope actually I'm not will I think I hope actually I'm not sure uh but uh the key assumption here

[1:03:29] sure uh but uh the key assumption here sure uh but uh the key assumption here gone too far the key assumption here is gone too far the key assumption here is gone too far the key assumption here is that the choices are such that they're that the choices are such that they're that the choices are such that they're effectively like linearly or orderable effectively like linearly or orderable effectively like linearly or orderable right so this is uh one of the key right so this is uh one of the key right so this is uh one of the key actions in using utility type uh one way actions in using utility type uh one way actions in using utility type uh one way that people like to say it particularly that people like to say it particularly that people like to say it particularly economics is that uh we're assuming that economics is that uh we're assuming that economics is that uh we're assuming that people are making rational choices This people are making rational choices This people are making rational choices This is quote unquote rational and rational is quote unquote rational and rational is quote unquote rational and rational here exactly means that you don't end up here exactly means that you don't end up here exactly means that you don't end up with this transitivity mess meaning like with this transitivity mess meaning like with this transitivity mess meaning like a over b over c and then c over a. This

[1:03:59] a over b over c and then c over a. This a over b over c and then c over a. This setup will not allow that to happen setup will not allow that to happen setup will not allow that to happen outside of noise. Uh but at least in outside of noise. Uh but at least in outside of noise. Uh but at least in terms of the expected behavior of terms of the expected behavior of terms of the expected behavior of orderings uh you assume orderings uh you assume orderings uh you assume uh in expectation that uh sort of all uh in expectation that uh sort of all uh in expectation that uh sort of all the options uh the preferences are are the options uh the preferences are are the options uh the preferences are are transitive. So you don't have this uh transitive. So you don't have this uh transitive. So you don't have this uh weird ordering issue that you brought weird ordering issue that you brought weird ordering issue that you brought up. Um in order to model that you would up. Um in order to model that you would up. Um in order to model that you would need to change the underlying model and need to change the underlying model and need to change the underlying model and that's one of the key so uh actually that's one of the key so uh actually that's one of the key so uh actually really like that you asked this question

[1:04:30] really like that you asked this question really like that you asked this question because again it's a key observation key because again it's a key observation key because again it's a key observation key assumption in using these kinds of assumption in using these kinds of assumption in using these kinds of models uh that can be broken. Uh so what models uh that can be broken. Uh so what models uh that can be broken. Uh so what might you do if this is broken? So one might you do if this is broken? So one might you do if this is broken? So one option is sometimes this lack of option is sometimes this lack of option is sometimes this lack of transitivity can be explained by just transitivity can be explained by just transitivity can be explained by just not having rich enough features. So you not having rich enough features. So you not having rich enough features. So you might add more features so that it it might add more features so that it it might add more features so that it it breaks things. Um breaks things. Um breaks things. Um you might I guess there are other you might I guess there are other you might I guess there are other classes of models which we're not classes of models which we're not classes of models which we're not covering but I should give references to covering but I should give references to covering but I should give references to that allow for uh some intransitive

[1:05:00] that allow for uh some intransitive that allow for uh some intransitive uh preferences which are similar enough uh preferences which are similar enough uh preferences which are similar enough and in a similar class. Uh and in a similar class. Uh and in a similar class. Uh generally though in most of these uh generally though in most of these uh generally though in most of these uh setups assume that the sort of setups assume that the sort of setups assume that the sort of quoteunquote true preferences are quote quoteunquote true preferences are quote quoteunquote true preferences are quote unquote rational. Um unquote rational. Um unquote rational. Um we had I don't we're not doing this this we had I don't we're not doing this this we had I don't we're not doing this this year but last year we had uh sort of year but last year we had uh sort of year but last year we had uh sort of psychologists and marketing folks in the psychologists and marketing folks in the psychologists and marketing folks in the room had this fun conversation about uh room had this fun conversation about uh room had this fun conversation about uh actually tied to this idea of noise uh actually tied to this idea of noise uh actually tied to this idea of noise uh which is one of the ways that you might which is one of the ways that you might which is one of the ways that you might explain uh lack of transitivity and

[1:05:30] explain uh lack of transitivity and explain uh lack of transitivity and there was this question of you know when there was this question of you know when there was this question of you know when we see uh observations of preferences we see uh observations of preferences we see uh observations of preferences that break these assumptions uh does that break these assumptions uh does that break these assumptions uh does this mean that humans are irrational? this mean that humans are irrational? this mean that humans are irrational? Um, or does this mean so is it a Um, or does this mean so is it a Um, or does this mean so is it a problem? problem? problem? This is a bad way to say it and this is This is a bad way to say it and this is This is a bad way to say it and this is not what I mean but lack of way of not what I mean but lack of way of not what I mean but lack of way of saying it. Are humans the problem saying it. Are humans the problem saying it. Are humans the problem because they're not matching our models because they're not matching our models because they're not matching our models or is it sort of our models or the or is it sort of our models or the or is it sort of our models or the context is not set up right? And I think context is not set up right? And I think context is not set up right? And I think a compelling answer to me is uh

[1:06:05] a compelling answer to me is uh a compelling answer to me is uh I should look up the paper and I think I should look up the paper and I think I should look up the paper and I think we might add it to our reading list. But we might add it to our reading list. But we might add it to our reading list. But a compelling answer to me is that when a compelling answer to me is that when a compelling answer to me is that when you see um you see um you see um okay so one extreme is the rationality okay so one extreme is the rationality okay so one extreme is the rationality assumption is completely broken and we assumption is completely broken and we assumption is completely broken and we shouldn't be using it and we have at shouldn't be using it and we have at shouldn't be using it and we have at least one talk uh I think in a week or least one talk uh I think in a week or least one talk uh I think in a week or so that will talk about whether or not so that will talk about whether or not so that will talk about whether or not uh strong rationality assumptions are uh strong rationality assumptions are uh strong rationality assumptions are good assumption for human choice good assumption for human choice good assumption for human choice particularly in sort of complex settings particularly in sort of complex settings particularly in sort of complex settings like language models. So we'll engage like language models. So we'll engage like language models. So we'll engage with that question a little bit. Um, with that question a little bit. Um, with that question a little bit. Um, another setup is that uh sort of we're

[1:06:37] another setup is that uh sort of we're another setup is that uh sort of we're not modeling the problem the right way. not modeling the problem the right way. not modeling the problem the right way. This is a version of add more features This is a version of add more features This is a version of add more features or add more context and sort of if we or add more context and sort of if we or add more context and sort of if we had sufficient appropriate contexts we had sufficient appropriate contexts we had sufficient appropriate contexts we can almost always think of humans as can almost always think of humans as can almost always think of humans as rational. Um to my understanding this is rational. Um to my understanding this is rational. Um to my understanding this is still a debate in say economics and still a debate in say economics and still a debate in say economics and other places that think about this other places that think about this other places that think about this problem much more carefully. Um problem much more carefully. Um problem much more carefully. Um I don't know I don't know a good answer I don't know I don't know a good answer I don't know I don't know a good answer to that. So you know it's for here I to that. So you know it's for here I to that. So you know it's for here I think we should think about as a think we should think about as a think we should think about as a pragmatic modeling choice. Uh we'll pragmatic modeling choice. Uh we'll pragmatic modeling choice. Uh we'll cover some instances where this is for

[1:07:07] cover some instances where this is for cover some instances where this is for sure broken and some tools for thinking sure broken and some tools for thinking sure broken and some tools for thinking about what to do when it's broken in a about what to do when it's broken in a about what to do when it's broken in a little bit. Um but it's it quickly little bit. Um but it's it quickly little bit. Um but it's it quickly becomes philosophical I think becomes philosophical I think becomes philosophical I think interestingly philosophical but uh you interestingly philosophical but uh you interestingly philosophical but uh you know often you'll observe data that uh know often you'll observe data that uh know often you'll observe data that uh sort of these kind of rationality sort of these kind of rationality sort of these kind of rationality assumptions don't help. Thank you. Good assumptions don't help. Thank you. Good assumptions don't help. Thank you. Good question. question. question. Okay. So, uh uh another important point that we haven't

[1:07:38] another important point that we haven't another important point that we haven't talked that much about is uh what does talked that much about is uh what does talked that much about is uh what does it mean to actually observe a it mean to actually observe a it mean to actually observe a preference? So, um there at least two preference? So, um there at least two preference? So, um there at least two sort of broad families of preference sort of broad families of preference sort of broad families of preference observations. Um observations. Um observations. Um one is called uh revealed preference one is called uh revealed preference one is called uh revealed preference meaning um I observe people making real meaning um I observe people making real meaning um I observe people making real choices in sort of real situations. Um choices in sort of real situations. Um choices in sort of real situations. Um so for instance I observe people so for instance I observe people so for instance I observe people actually coming to my car site and actually coming to my car site and actually coming to my car site and picking the car that they want to

[1:08:08] picking the car that they want to picking the car that they want to choose. Um often this is offline but choose. Um often this is offline but choose. Um often this is offline but this captures sort of real behavior of this captures sort of real behavior of this captures sort of real behavior of people in real context. Um so that's people in real context. Um so that's people in real context. Um so that's sort of one version of it. Another sort of one version of it. Another sort of one version of it. Another version is you put people in a room, you version is you put people in a room, you version is you put people in a room, you say, "Imagine you were going to pick buy say, "Imagine you were going to pick buy say, "Imagine you were going to pick buy a car. Uh here are some options for a car. Uh here are some options for a car. Uh here are some options for cars. Which car do you think you would cars. Which car do you think you would cars. Which car do you think you would pick?" Uh so this these are often called pick?" Uh so this these are often called pick?" Uh so this these are often called stated preferences. Uh the key stated preferences. Uh the key stated preferences. Uh the key difference here is that this is difference here is that this is difference here is that this is generally for the human this is generally for the human this is generally for the human this is hypothetical, right? So they're not hypothetical, right? So they're not hypothetical, right? So they're not making a say economic choice. They're

[1:08:39] making a say economic choice. They're making a say economic choice. They're not actually putting money to buy an not actually putting money to buy an not actually putting money to buy an item. uh they're instead trying to think item. uh they're instead trying to think item. uh they're instead trying to think through their mental model of how would through their mental model of how would through their mental model of how would I make a choice if I was faced with this I make a choice if I was faced with this I make a choice if I was faced with this choice in a real setting. Um so the big choice in a real setting. Um so the big choice in a real setting. Um so the big plus of the state of preference is that plus of the state of preference is that plus of the state of preference is that you can control a bunch of the context. you can control a bunch of the context. you can control a bunch of the context. So you can do well controlled So you can do well controlled So you can do well controlled experiments. You can balance uh and sort experiments. You can balance uh and sort experiments. You can balance uh and sort of control for compounds and things like of control for compounds and things like of control for compounds and things like that. Uh but the the big uh issue that's that. Uh but the the big uh issue that's that. Uh but the the big uh issue that's often brought up with state of often brought up with state of often brought up with state of preference is that it may be preference is that it may be preference is that it may be unrealistic. You know people might state unrealistic. You know people might state unrealistic. You know people might state that it might choose something. This

[1:09:09] that it might choose something. This that it might choose something. This often comes up in say election choices often comes up in say election choices often comes up in say election choices that people state they will pick a that people state they will pick a that people state they will pick a certain option but they will actually certain option but they will actually certain option but they will actually make a different choice when they really make a different choice when they really make a different choice when they really need to make their choice in the real need to make their choice in the real need to make their choice in the real world. Um so this is a meaningful issue. world. Um so this is a meaningful issue. world. Um so this is a meaningful issue. I think it's one of those things that's I think it's one of those things that's I think it's one of those things that's not engaged sufficiently in our field not engaged sufficiently in our field not engaged sufficiently in our field for instance. So for instance in for instance. So for instance in for instance. So for instance in language models uh I guess there's a bit language models uh I guess there's a bit language models uh I guess there's a bit of a weird gap because we don't have of a weird gap because we don't have of a weird gap because we don't have good grounding to like say downstream good grounding to like say downstream good grounding to like say downstream impact decisions to make a big impact decisions to make a big impact decisions to make a big distinction between revealed and stated distinction between revealed and stated distinction between revealed and stated but I'd argue and often in say language

[1:09:39] but I'd argue and often in say language but I'd argue and often in say language model experiments we're thinking about model experiments we're thinking about model experiments we're thinking about this through the lens of stated this through the lens of stated this through the lens of stated preferences someone's in a room I give preferences someone's in a room I give preferences someone's in a room I give them a bunch of language completion I them a bunch of language completion I them a bunch of language completion I ask them which would you prefer there's ask them which would you prefer there's ask them which would you prefer there's no cost to making a decision in either no cost to making a decision in either no cost to making a decision in either way it's sort of your mental model of way it's sort of your mental model of way it's sort of your mental model of you think might be reasonable. Um, so you think might be reasonable. Um, so you think might be reasonable. Um, so again, this is a sort of meaningful gap. again, this is a sort of meaningful gap. again, this is a sort of meaningful gap. Um, it's again something that's Um, it's again something that's Um, it's again something that's considered semicontroversial depending considered semicontroversial depending considered semicontroversial depending on the setting that you're in. Um, on the setting that you're in. Um, on the setting that you're in. Um, again, the big issue with stated

[1:10:09] again, the big issue with stated again, the big issue with stated preference is that you wonder if people preference is that you wonder if people preference is that you wonder if people are actually going to sort of tell you are actually going to sort of tell you are actually going to sort of tell you the real thing that they would do if the real thing that they would do if the real thing that they would do if they're sort of simulating their they're sort of simulating their they're sort of simulating their decision process. Uh, however, in review decision process. Uh, however, in review decision process. Uh, however, in review preference, you have issues of preference, you have issues of preference, you have issues of compounds, you have issues of coverage. compounds, you have issues of coverage. compounds, you have issues of coverage. So you know the set of choices that So you know the set of choices that So you know the set of choices that people make may not cover all available people make may not cover all available people make may not cover all available choices sufficiently such that you can choices sufficiently such that you can choices sufficiently such that you can estimate good parameters for how people estimate good parameters for how people estimate good parameters for how people are thinking about uh of all the are thinking about uh of all the are thinking about uh of all the different choice options that they might different choice options that they might different choice options that they might make. Um is this clear? This is actually make. Um is this clear? This is actually make. Um is this clear? This is actually quite an important idea. So I want to quite an important idea. So I want to quite an important idea. So I want to make sure uh that it's clearish.

[1:10:43] make sure uh that it's clearish. make sure uh that it's clearish. Okay cool. Uh any questions on Okay cool. Uh any questions on Okay cool. Uh any questions on discussion so far? discussion so far? discussion so far? &gt;&gt; Oh I'm I'm just curious for perspective &gt;&gt; Oh I'm I'm just curious for perspective &gt;&gt; Oh I'm I'm just curious for perspective actually. So I mean obviously this is an actually. So I mean obviously this is an actually. So I mean obviously this is an important distinction but like you seem important distinction but like you seem important distinction but like you seem to also emphasize like the modeling to also emphasize like the modeling to also emphasize like the modeling choice preference right like you know choice preference right like you know choice preference right like you know logistic whatever you know model you logistic whatever you know model you logistic whatever you know model you want to use and do you actually do all want to use and do you actually do all want to use and do you actually do all three interact in your mind at all? three interact in your mind at all? three interact in your mind at all? &gt;&gt; Um huh &gt;&gt; Um huh &gt;&gt; Um huh &gt;&gt; I mean I mean the experimenttor chooses

[1:11:13] &gt;&gt; I mean I mean the experimenttor chooses &gt;&gt; I mean I mean the experimenttor chooses rightdeed they want data review all rightdeed they want data review all rightdeed they want data review all these things as well. these things as well. these things as well. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So yes and no. So the question is you So yes and no. So the question is you So yes and no. So the question is you know does say the experimental choice of know does say the experimental choice of know does say the experimental choice of state versus revealed interact with the state versus revealed interact with the state versus revealed interact with the underlying model uh class that you might underlying model uh class that you might underlying model uh class that you might use for instance. Um use for instance. Um use for instance. Um so so so practically the choices seem orthogonal practically the choices seem orthogonal practically the choices seem orthogonal sorry conceptually the choices seem sorry conceptually the choices seem sorry conceptually the choices seem orthogonal. Practically they interact in orthogonal. Practically they interact in orthogonal. Practically they interact in the following way. Um so again with

[1:11:44] the following way. Um so again with the following way. Um so again with revealed preference you have a bit less revealed preference you have a bit less revealed preference you have a bit less control over the sample space. What this control over the sample space. What this control over the sample space. What this means is that you can end up in means is that you can end up in means is that you can end up in estimation gaps where sort of some estimation gaps where sort of some estimation gaps where sort of some choices are way under sampled and some choices are way under sampled and some choices are way under sampled and some parts of say X space way under sample so parts of say X space way under sample so parts of say X space way under sample so that your model is bad. And so a that your model is bad. And so a that your model is bad. And so a pragmatic choice in that setting is to pragmatic choice in that setting is to pragmatic choice in that setting is to pick a model that's say more restricted pick a model that's say more restricted pick a model that's say more restricted so that it does a better job uh given so that it does a better job uh given so that it does a better job uh given restricted uh choices in terms of restricted uh choices in terms of restricted uh choices in terms of options. If you're doing controlled options. If you're doing controlled options. If you're doing controlled experiment stuff as well, so you think

[1:12:15] experiment stuff as well, so you think experiment stuff as well, so you think about this as like you know controlled about this as like you know controlled about this as like you know controlled two sample testing kind of thing between two sample testing kind of thing between two sample testing kind of thing between options then uh the observation model options then uh the observation model options then uh the observation model might also impact how you think about might also impact how you think about might also impact how you think about what a good preference model might be. what a good preference model might be. what a good preference model might be. Um, so they do interact, but I think Um, so they do interact, but I think Um, so they do interact, but I think it's a little bit weirdly nuanced, it's a little bit weirdly nuanced, it's a little bit weirdly nuanced, though important. Uh, I don't know if though important. Uh, I don't know if though important. Uh, I don't know if actually it's a it's a good question actually it's a it's a good question actually it's a it's a good question actually. Uh, it's not one I've thought actually. Uh, it's not one I've thought actually. Uh, it's not one I've thought about as directly, but it's an important about as directly, but it's an important about as directly, but it's an important uh design choice here. You have thoughts

[1:12:46] uh design choice here. You have thoughts uh design choice here. You have thoughts on this or on this or on this or &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I mean it's actually the first &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I mean it's actually the first &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, I mean it's actually the first time I was putting that together that time I was putting that together that time I was putting that together that you actually have to choose maybe you actually have to choose maybe you actually have to choose maybe different rolesde different rolesde different rolesde &gt;&gt; that are most appropriate for kind of &gt;&gt; that are most appropriate for kind of &gt;&gt; that are most appropriate for kind of preference. preference. preference. &gt;&gt; Uh maybe you and you &gt;&gt; Uh maybe you and you &gt;&gt; Uh maybe you and you &gt;&gt; uh yeah don't they actually interact um &gt;&gt; uh yeah don't they actually interact um &gt;&gt; uh yeah don't they actually interact um because say I said on YouTube I don't because say I said on YouTube I don't because say I said on YouTube I don't want to see this but then I kept want to see this but then I kept want to see this but then I kept clicking on it anyway and the model has clicking on it anyway and the model has clicking on it anyway and the model has to like who is right like is it your to like who is right like is it your to like who is right like is it your choice of like your group of preference choice of like your group of preference

[1:13:16] choice of like your group of preference or is it your stated preference? uh or is it your stated preference? uh or is it your stated preference? uh when you say interact so I think the when you say interact so I think the when you say interact so I think the earlier question was about uh the earlier question was about uh the earlier question was about uh the learning model that you choose for the learning model that you choose for the learning model that you choose for the observed data versus the observation observed data versus the observation observed data versus the observation process and sort of whether it's you process and sort of whether it's you process and sort of whether it's you like I don't know well what kind of like I don't know well what kind of like I don't know well what kind of observation process between the two observation process between the two observation process between the two options um could you I guess options um could you I guess options um could you I guess &gt;&gt; or so I'm saying that are they really &gt;&gt; or so I'm saying that are they really &gt;&gt; or so I'm saying that are they really separate models or actually they separate models or actually they separate models or actually they actually should be in the same model actually should be in the same model actually should be in the same model &gt;&gt; oh okay yeah so I said this badly so you

[1:13:46] &gt;&gt; oh okay yeah so I said this badly so you &gt;&gt; oh okay yeah so I said this badly so you know what I meant meant to say and thank know what I meant meant to say and thank know what I meant meant to say and thank you for bringing this up. It wasn't you for bringing this up. It wasn't you for bringing this up. It wasn't clear. I guess conceptually they seem clear. I guess conceptually they seem clear. I guess conceptually they seem like independent decisions. Practically like independent decisions. Practically like independent decisions. Practically they interact because like I said uh if they interact because like I said uh if they interact because like I said uh if I'm in a real preference setting this I'm in a real preference setting this I'm in a real preference setting this often will lead in many interesting real often will lead in many interesting real often will lead in many interesting real preference settings this leads to like a preference settings this leads to like a preference settings this leads to like a specific distribution skew in the data I specific distribution skew in the data I specific distribution skew in the data I get to see. Right? So generally in get to see. Right? So generally in get to see. Right? So generally in stated preference I can design my stated preference I can design my stated preference I can design my experiments so that everyone has to pick experiments so that everyone has to pick experiments so that everyone has to pick over every possible options sort of

[1:14:16] over every possible options sort of over every possible options sort of things the essentially the the things the essentially the the things the essentially the the observations of Y and X have a good observations of Y and X have a good observations of Y and X have a good coverage over all the possible options coverage over all the possible options coverage over all the possible options such that maybe uh it's easier to fit a such that maybe uh it's easier to fit a such that maybe uh it's easier to fit a more complicated model or something like more complicated model or something like more complicated model or something like that. Um whereas if I'm in a real that. Um whereas if I'm in a real that. Um whereas if I'm in a real preference setting I don't have control preference setting I don't have control preference setting I don't have control over the sampling process. I'm just over the sampling process. I'm just over the sampling process. I'm just seeing what the world is giving me. And seeing what the world is giving me. And seeing what the world is giving me. And so, you know, generally when you don't so, you know, generally when you don't so, you know, generally when you don't have control over the sampling process, have control over the sampling process, have control over the sampling process, it's pragmatic to use simpler models. it's pragmatic to use simpler models. it's pragmatic to use simpler models. It's sort of a reasonable decision to It's sort of a reasonable decision to It's sort of a reasonable decision to make. And in many settings, it will tend

[1:14:46] make. And in many settings, it will tend make. And in many settings, it will tend to work better because I mean, or you to work better because I mean, or you to work better because I mean, or you could do that or you could do more could do that or you could do more could do that or you could do more sophisticated things to control for sophisticated things to control for sophisticated things to control for distribution shift for instance, the distribution shift for instance, the distribution shift for instance, the fact that you get the skewed fact that you get the skewed fact that you get the skewed distribution of what you'd like to see, distribution of what you'd like to see, distribution of what you'd like to see, which is some coverage of all the which is some coverage of all the which is some coverage of all the different preferences. So the the the my different preferences. So the the the my different preferences. So the the the my answer is uh answer is uh answer is uh they interact with each other and they interact with each other and they interact with each other and interaction matters but I think of it as interaction matters but I think of it as interaction matters but I think of it as a bit subtle or maybe it's not subtle. I a bit subtle or maybe it's not subtle. I a bit subtle or maybe it's not subtle. I think of it as subtle though. think of it as subtle though. think of it as subtle though. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I was just thinking back to the &gt;&gt; Yeah. I was just thinking back to the &gt;&gt; Yeah. I was just thinking back to the YouTube example like which one would I

[1:15:17] YouTube example like which one would I YouTube example like which one would I think would be more reliable if I had a think would be more reliable if I had a think would be more reliable if I had a you know labeled data set with a bunch you know labeled data set with a bunch you know labeled data set with a bunch of people and which videos they of people and which videos they of people and which videos they preferred given you know some some preferred given you know some some preferred given you know some some information about them. Uh, you know, information about them. Uh, you know, information about them. Uh, you know, the example that I always think about is the example that I always think about is the example that I always think about is like, um, my three-year-old daughter like, um, my three-year-old daughter like, um, my three-year-old daughter gets my phone and just starts going gets my phone and just starts going gets my phone and just starts going crazy and starts, you know, swiping, crazy and starts, you know, swiping, crazy and starts, you know, swiping, clicking and stuff like that. And that clicking and stuff like that. And that clicking and stuff like that. And that happens and sometimes happens and sometimes happens and sometimes &gt;&gt; almost a noise, right? &gt;&gt; almost a noise, right? &gt;&gt; almost a noise, right? &gt;&gt; Phone, you know. So, if you use the &gt;&gt; Phone, you know. So, if you use the &gt;&gt; Phone, you know. So, if you use the implied uh, did I complete the video,

[1:15:49] implied uh, did I complete the video, implied uh, did I complete the video, which is like, you know, a very good which is like, you know, a very good which is like, you know, a very good signal, but it just requires some signal, but it just requires some signal, but it just requires some cleaning and then it can actually misue cleaning and then it can actually misue cleaning and then it can actually misue &gt;&gt; if you just use it raw. &gt;&gt; if you just use it raw. &gt;&gt; if you just use it raw. Yes. Again, I think of this as like, you Yes. Again, I think of this as like, you Yes. Again, I think of this as like, you know, the real world is messy and noisy know, the real world is messy and noisy know, the real world is messy and noisy and you have to make choices. I mean, and you have to make choices. I mean, and you have to make choices. I mean, the the counterargument is if I'm the the counterargument is if I'm the the counterargument is if I'm requiring state of preference, uh, I requiring state of preference, uh, I requiring state of preference, uh, I guess it's very well known that, you guess it's very well known that, you guess it's very well known that, you know, people telling you what they think know, people telling you what they think know, people telling you what they think they would choose and what they actually

[1:16:19] they would choose and what they actually they would choose and what they actually choose are not the same. That's the choose are not the same. That's the choose are not the same. That's the actual gap, right? Right. So, the actual gap, right? Right. So, the actual gap, right? Right. So, the trade-off that you're making is I in a trade-off that you're making is I in a trade-off that you're making is I in a situation where either you don't care, situation where either you don't care, situation where either you don't care, you just really want to be able to you just really want to be able to you just really want to be able to control the experimental setup or do you control the experimental setup or do you control the experimental setup or do you really care about sort of really seeing really care about sort of really seeing really care about sort of really seeing what people's choices are? Uh, I like what people's choices are? Uh, I like what people's choices are? Uh, I like the election one actually like you know the election one actually like you know the election one actually like you know if I who would you vote for ask in this if I who would you vote for ask in this if I who would you vote for ask in this room I think people may pick options room I think people may pick options room I think people may pick options that think you know in this we're in the that think you know in this we're in the that think you know in this we're in the west coast in California what everyone west coast in California what everyone west coast in California what everyone might agree you might have a different might agree you might have a different might agree you might have a different actual preference that you may not want

[1:16:50] actual preference that you may not want actual preference that you may not want to state because you don't feel to state because you don't feel to state because you don't feel comfortable stating in a room like this comfortable stating in a room like this comfortable stating in a room like this uh so here's for sure a gap right uh so here's for sure a gap right uh so here's for sure a gap right there's a stated preference uh which is there's a stated preference uh which is there's a stated preference uh which is this I'm going to imagine and in this I'm going to imagine and in this I'm going to imagine and in addition to imagining a choice you'd addition to imagining a choice you'd addition to imagining a choice you'd make you're also maybe uh taking into make you're also maybe uh taking into make you're also maybe uh taking into account who's asking you the question, account who's asking you the question, account who's asking you the question, the context, your opinion, how you think the context, your opinion, how you think the context, your opinion, how you think they might think about you making that they might think about you making that they might think about you making that choice. All that stuff gets folded in. choice. All that stuff gets folded in. choice. All that stuff gets folded in. In real preference, you're looking at In real preference, you're looking at In real preference, you're looking at the actual choice people make often when the actual choice people make often when the actual choice people make often when there's some consequence on the line. there's some consequence on the line. there's some consequence on the line. There's an economic or buying decision. There's an economic or buying decision. There's an economic or buying decision. There's some real world outcome that's

[1:17:20] There's some real world outcome that's There's some real world outcome that's tied to it. So, it's a meaningful gap. I tied to it. So, it's a meaningful gap. I tied to it. So, it's a meaningful gap. I I I may or may not have done a good job I I may or may not have done a good job I I may or may not have done a good job like really clarifying that these can like really clarifying that these can like really clarifying that these can actually be like night and day different actually be like night and day different actually be like night and day different from each other. like sort of your from each other. like sort of your from each other. like sort of your reasoning and uh trying to imagine a reasoning and uh trying to imagine a reasoning and uh trying to imagine a preference versus actually making a preference versus actually making a preference versus actually making a decision in real world. And so the data, decision in real world. And so the data, decision in real world. And so the data, you know, in the same exact situation you know, in the same exact situation you know, in the same exact situation but collected in two different settings but collected in two different settings but collected in two different settings in general would not agree actually. in general would not agree actually. in general would not agree actually. &gt;&gt; Is there anyone that uses both and uses &gt;&gt; Is there anyone that uses both and uses &gt;&gt; Is there anyone that uses both and uses a dummy dummy variable and yeah that

[1:17:50] a dummy dummy variable and yeah that a dummy dummy variable and yeah that bias kind of bias kind of bias kind of &gt;&gt; so some of this is modelable. Uh I &gt;&gt; so some of this is modelable. Uh I &gt;&gt; so some of this is modelable. Uh I haven't seen that much work trying to haven't seen that much work trying to haven't seen that much work trying to engage with this. Um though I'll be engage with this. Um though I'll be engage with this. Um though I'll be surprised if there isn't given how much surprised if there isn't given how much surprised if there isn't given how much how big this area is. Um if also if you how big this area is. Um if also if you how big this area is. Um if also if you don't mind I want to make sure we're don't mind I want to make sure we're don't mind I want to make sure we're close to time. So I love the discussion close to time. So I love the discussion close to time. So I love the discussion but I may push the rest of this offline but I may push the rest of this offline but I may push the rest of this offline so we can finish discussion today. So so we can finish discussion today. So so we can finish discussion today. So we'll skip the exercises because uh we we'll skip the exercises because uh we we'll skip the exercises because uh we had a good conversation and didn't get had a good conversation and didn't get had a good conversation and didn't get to this. I think I'll push the ideal

[1:18:20] to this. I think I'll push the ideal to this. I think I'll push the ideal point model to next week. Um, point model to next week. Um, point model to next week. Um, so so so actually we can end here. So let's actually we can end here. So let's actually we can end here. So let's actually just go with uh maybe the last actually just go with uh maybe the last actually just go with uh maybe the last question. question. question. &gt;&gt; I was just going to uh say I think I &gt;&gt; I was just going to uh say I think I &gt;&gt; I was just going to uh say I think I could clear where you want to ch like could clear where you want to ch like could clear where you want to ch like people like for example people's own people like for example people's own people like for example people's own money or is on the line there to be risk money or is on the line there to be risk money or is on the line there to be risk and you want to use like I don't know and you want to use like I don't know and you want to use like I don't know your economy preference models. Um, and your economy preference models. Um, and your economy preference models. Um, and then if you if you ask people for stated then if you if you ask people for stated then if you if you ask people for stated preferences in simulation, then maybe

[1:18:50] preferences in simulation, then maybe preferences in simulation, then maybe they're like expected utility maximizers they're like expected utility maximizers they're like expected utility maximizers instead because it's not throwing money instead because it's not throwing money instead because it's not throwing money on the line. And so that's like a me on the line. And so that's like a me on the line. And so that's like a me seems like a clear case where two seems like a clear case where two seems like a clear case where two different preference models. So it makes different preference models. So it makes different preference models. So it makes sense depending on the sense depending on the sense depending on the &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think those are part of it. I &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think those are part of it. I &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think those are part of it. I think there's additional nuance that think there's additional nuance that think there's additional nuance that makes uh I guess not as clear separation makes uh I guess not as clear separation makes uh I guess not as clear separation of use and pointed situations. Um, yeah, of use and pointed situations. Um, yeah, of use and pointed situations. Um, yeah, maybe we'll just end that there for now, maybe we'll just end that there for now, maybe we'll just end that there for now, but it's a good good point. Um, if you but it's a good good point. Um, if you but it's a good good point. Um, if you don't mind, I think we're at time, so don't mind, I think we're at time, so don't mind, I think we're at time, so we'll just take the rest of the we'll just take the rest of the we'll just take the rest of the questions offline. But good discussion

[1:19:20] questions offline. But good discussion questions offline. But good discussion today. Thanks everyone.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=-bych9RfQvw
