# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Ethics

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-kdR_7dCcyI
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:10:54 · Words: 36618
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/-kdR_7dCcyI.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=-kdR_7dCcyI

## Transcript
[0:09] I think we can get started then. Um, okay. Uh, my name Dan Weber. I'm, uh, here to talk a little bit about, uh, value alignment and, uh, we'll also be talking at the end, uh, a bit about, uh, the ESR statements that you're going to have to do for, uh, your final projects. Um, okay. So, who's this guy? what's he doing here? Why should I care at all about what he has to say? Um I'm not sure if I'll be able to answer that last question, but uh I am a posttock here at

[0:39] question, but uh I am a posttock here at Stanford uh in HAI and EIS, that's uh the Institute for Human Centered Artificial Intelligence and the Center for Ethics in Society. Um my job here in addition to you know doing uh research is uh embedding ethics into CS courses um mostly uh undergraduate courses but we've been uh expanding our reach into courses like this one. Um before I came here um got my PhD in philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. Uh wrote my

[1:11] University of Pittsburgh. Uh wrote my dissertation on uh moral theory which is uh you know basically just uh trying to think really hard and systematically about uh value. Uh before that I got my bachelor's in computer science worked for a couple of years um as a software developer. So, uh, I know my way around computer science a little bit. Uh, probably not as much as, uh, any of you. I took, uh, an introductory course on AI, uh, as an

[1:44] an introductory course on AI, uh, as an undergraduate. That was, uh, 10 years ago. Um, and I think the field has, uh, maybe changed a little bit since then. Uh, we definitely did not cover, uh, machine learning from human preferences. So uh you all are going to know the machine learning way better than I do. I'm not here today to be uh an expert on that. Um but I'm hoping to give you uh a little bit of window into uh how to think about value and how it might be uh

[2:14] think about value and how it might be uh more complicated uh sometimes than uh you might think. Um, you know, I think the the interesting questions about value alignment are not just um technical. Uh, they're also uh philosophical or at least partly philosophical. Um, and we're not going to solve any deep problems about value in the next hour. Uh, we're not going to be able to go very in-depth, in fact, on almost any of this stuff. Uh, if you're interested in uh some of the finer

[2:44] interested in uh some of the finer points, uh, I recommend taking uh, a philosophy course. But just going to try to give a little bit of a lay of the land here, a sense of the some of the scope of possibilities when it comes to thinking about value and value alignment. So, uh what is value alignment? Um sort of a a term that means uh I think a lot of uh different things to different people. And that's uh sort of where we're going to start off today. But maybe just for an illustrative example, uh sort of one

[3:16] an illustrative example, uh sort of one of the classics in the philosophy literature at least, um is uh paperclip AI. Uh not not actually Clippy. I don't know if anybody here even knows what that is or if I'm just dating myself. Uh okay. But uh this is an example due to uh Nick Bostonramm and his book on uh super intelligent AI and the case goes like this. He says an AI designed to

[3:46] like this. He says an AI designed to manage production in a factory is given the final goal of maxi uh maximizing the manufacturer of paper clips. Um I don't know if anybody has anybody encountered this example before. Anybody know how it end? I'm getting I'm getting a nod. What's do you you remember where this goes next? Oh yeah. I mean the most efficient way to build lots of paper clips more factories change all the jobs to be paper clips. Turn rocks into paper clips. clips. clips. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Or could be paper clips.

[4:16] &gt;&gt; Or could be paper clips. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. I mean you want to maximize paper clips, right? I mean just uh so all those things and then just build up from there, right? You know, start converting everything around you into paper clips. More factories. Everything everywhere paperclipip factories. eventually the whole Earth, he says, increasingly large chunks of the observable universe. Okay, obviously this is uh probably a bit hyperbolic. Uh if you've got an AI system that's got enough power to to do that, that's uh probably a problem. And Boston is

[4:46] probably a problem. And Boston is focused on super intelligent AI. But uh you can think I think uh even of ways that a less powerful AI might pursue uh even a relatively simple goal like this in surprising ways, right? So you could imagine even even an AI system that was just, you know, sort of in charge of the factory uh given a goal like that, you know, you could imagine uh locking the doors, you know, locking the workers in the factory so they can't leave, right? Denying system access to the humans who

[5:17] Denying system access to the humans who might interfere with its processes or end them. Um okay, uh that would be an example of uh value misalignment. uh sort of broadly speaking and talk about the problem of value alignment. We're talking about how do we design AI agents that will do what we really want. Uh right where what we really want is often more nuanced than what we say that we want, right? Uh it often goes beyond

[5:49] we want, right? Uh it often goes beyond uh you know the the simple instructions that we give, right? We're working with a lot of background assumptions uh uh in human language that are sometimes hard to formalize and they're easy for us to forget about because we don't even we don't even have them in view, right? We would never think to say maximize paperclip production, you know, but don't lock all the workers in the factory. We would just take for granted that that's not a thing that you would do on the way to uh maximizing production. production. production. Um, okay.

[6:21] Um, okay. And you might think this is just a, you know, the problem here is just, you know, it's a skill issue. You just didn't give good enough instructions. Uh, but I think it can be hard to solve this problem just by giving better instructions. Uh, I mean, is I don't know if anybody wants to give a try. Anybody have an idea of what what better instruction you might have given to to the paperclip AI to avoid, you know, disaster? I guess the smart alic answer is like make a bounded number of paper clips.

[6:52] make a bounded number of paper clips. &gt;&gt; Good. Yes. So, right. I mean, uh, yeah, maximize paperclip production, right? I mean, a big big problem with that goal is that it's, uh, it's open-ended, right? Uh, yeah, if you, you know, this is how many paper clips I need, you know, give a reasonable number, that's certainly going to, you would think it was going to stop the, you know, converting the whole earth into paper clips, uh, approach. Although it's interesting. I mean this is uh you know I don't want to get too stuck in this one example but uh um yeah Boston thinks about this and he he worries that you

[7:23] about this and he he worries that you know the uh an AI that sort of only has this one goal focus on paper clips is going to get to uh you know it might get to that number and think oh well but you know maybe I miscounted maybe I'm not sure I got nothing else to do you know. Um okay but you could you know you could say exactly a million paper clips or something. Um, right. But that's not going to be uh so that that'll solve the, you know, runaway AI destroys the universe by turning it into paper clips. Uh, that

[7:53] turning it into paper clips. Uh, that might not solve, you know, uh, AI, you know, locks the workers in the factory or takes the plumbing out of the walls to for raw materials for paper clips, right? So, uh, you know, yeah, I think I mean, put it this way, once you have on the table a particular failure case, it might be easy to to see, okay, here's maybe here's what I should have said to cover that case, right? Part of the difficulties that uh is getting a a view of all of the possible failure cases in

[8:23] of all of the possible failure cases in advance, right? But yeah, that's a that's a good suggestion. Thank you. Um, okay. Uh yeah and I mean this is I mean broadly speaking this is just the same difficulty that comes with manually specifying a reward function right when you get to a sufficiently complicated task. This can be uh yeah difficult to do you realize that you need to specify rewards for lots of things that weren't even on your mind because you know the AI comes up with ways of solving the

[8:53] AI comes up with ways of solving the problem you never would have expected. Um, okay. And of course, this is even worse, right? This problem uh for AI that takes instruction from non-expert users, right? So, it' be it's one thing if you are sort of the uh you as the computer science scientists are the one giving the instructions, right? And you've got a sense of how this thing works, a sense of what it does and doesn't know. Uh you know, you're in a relatively good position to uh you know, be able to give clear instructions that cover all the cases that you're worried

[9:24] cover all the cases that you're worried about. But you know if you're you're designing a system for use by just anybody who doesn't know how it works um could be even easier uh even more difficult to foresee uh these problems and give good instructions. instructions. instructions. Okay. Uh so yeah like I said broadly the right the problem is getting AI to do what we really want it to do. Okay. But that's pretty squishy. What exactly does that mean? Um I mean there are a lot of different

[9:55] I mean there are a lot of different things that it could mean and I think how you uh think about that is going to affect your approach uh to value alignment um you know philosophically but also technically. Um right so uh one way you might think about it is the value alignment is the problem of designing AI agents uh that do what we really intend for them to do. Right? Uh the problem here was that I gave an instruction that didn't really include my whole intention. Right? There are things I intended for the uh AI to

[10:27] are things I intended for the uh AI to do and not do that, uh weren't sort of explicitly communicated, right? Right? If you're if that's the way that you think about the problem, uh then you know the problem in this paperclip AI case is that you know it failed to derive my true intention right which was something like maximize production subject to you know certain constraints which you in theory could flush out uh failed to drive that intention from my instruction which was just to maximize production.

[10:57] production. production. Um, Um, Um, okay. Uh, right. So, if if that's the problem, you'd think the solution then would be to design AI systems that are able to do this kind of translation successfully, right? They're able to take in under specified instructions uh and fill out on their own sort of all of the background conditions that I have in mind and that if I were talking to another person, they would sort of know that I had in mind. Uh, right. So when I say maximize paperclip production, the

[11:28] say maximize paperclip production, the AI knows correctly interprets that as okay do that without you know just within the contines confines of the factory you know using normal materials not you know killing or enslaving the workers and so on and so on right um uh yeah this is this is AI researcher Jason Gabriel talking about this problem back in 2020 says um you know this is a significant challenge right to really grab That's the intention behind instructions. AI may require a complete

[11:59] instructions. AI may require a complete model of human language and interaction, right? Including an understanding of the culture, institutions, and practices that allow people to understand the implied meaning of terms, right? What what is and is not implied in what I say, you know, depends a whole lot on our practices and our culture. And uh yeah, so to derive this kind of thing for my instructions is going to require this sort of uh yeah, as as Gabriel says, complete model of human language. Um I mean, you might wonder,

[12:31] Um I mean, you might you might wonder, you know, about how well this quote has aged in the last four years. I don't know. Does anybody anybody have thoughts about I mean, I'm I'm I'm clearly just fishing for the thing that I'm going to say anyway, but I'm I'm curious if Can it be like broken down where you saying maximize production but that agent is having like a fleet of agents where the problem is broken down uh into like okay designing optimal machinery uh like have the best like resources how much resources can we

[13:03] like resources how much resources can we get u and like what is the like just bro breaking down the problem and uh attempting to solve each sub problem for maximizing the whole &gt;&gt; good yeah and I think uh so Yeah, I think you're absolutely right that that's something that uh you would want uh you might potentially want in your design of an AI system, you know, to carry out really complex tasks, right? Although Although Although uh uh uh you know, I'm not uh the problem here in

[13:33] you know, I'm not uh the problem here in some sense is not breaking down this problem into it uh this you know request into its subp parts. The problem here is uh you know in in a in a sense it's kind of going the opposite direction. I'm giving this really minimal specification and it needs to figure out what are all of the sort of constraints and everything that's being implied in that instruction. Um you know that's something that's going to need to be understood sort of by the top level system. So breaking I mean I suppose you could imagine breaking out the process

[14:03] could imagine breaking out the process of doing that translation but it's less about breaking the problem down into steps and more about how is the system even determining what is the problem that I want it to solve right the worry in this case is that maximize paperclip production end of story is not actually that's not really the problem that I want it to solve right um well I don't know I mean this is you know I'm just a uh I'm no AI expert I mean you might you I wonder whether this is a task that an LLM could assist in. I mean, you know,

[14:33] LLM could assist in. I mean, you know, thinking about AI may require a complete model of human language. I don't know. You know, depending on how rosy a view you have of recent AI developments, you might think that's uh something that we're already close to. Uh yeah, I mean, you might you might worry about how well we could test that kind of understanding, but um okay. okay. okay. Uh Uh Uh so there there's that's you know the technical problem but uh there's also a

[15:03] technical problem but uh there's also a philosophical problem here which is that our intentions uh you might think don't always track what it is we really want uh in the relevant sense. So classic cases of this might be uh where I have incomplete information, right? Or I'm not sort of being perfectly rational, right? I mean, you might imagine that uh you know, the reason that I want the AI to maximize paperclip production, it's not just for the love of paper clips, right? It's because I'm I'm in the paperclip business and I want to, you

[15:33] paperclip business and I want to, you know, uh make as much money as I can, right? Uh okay. Well, if that's if that's the case and the AI knows that I would get more money out of doing, you know, pivoting into something else, don't do paper clips, do staples, right? Uh has Yeah, you might you might wonder, has it given me what I really want if it does what I intended for it to do, which was to maximize paperclip production, right? I mean, in one sense, yes. Uh but in another sense, no. And you might think that sense is uh is the more

[16:04] think that sense is uh is the more important one, right? I want ultimately what I want to get is what I prefer as a result. Uh you know what I would intend if I had sort of all the information and I was thinking perfectly about it. Um okay so this is sort of a second interpretation maybe of what we really want. Right? We want the the agent uh the agent is value line if it does what the user prefers to have done. Right? Um and

[16:34] and and uh yeah where this can come apart from what user intends right on this interpretation paperclipip AI is misaligned because you know I prefer it not you know destroy the plumbing or destroy the uh you know entire world in the process of making paper clips. Um and here broadly the problem is uh you know how to get the agent to derive what the user prefers when that differs from the intention that the user has expressed

[17:05] expressed expressed um right where the solution uh generally is to try to infer user preferences from behavior or feedback. Uh I take it that's sort of the motivating insight of machine learning from human preferences uh or human feedback in the first place. Um okay so given that I mean I don't think I probably need to dwell too long on uh you know the technical challenges that uh you probably spent uh most of the class

[17:36] probably spent uh most of the class thinking about these and many more. Um I think uh you know this this last one though I think is you know is maybe worth worth worth uh emphasizing well following on the second one right I mean you're you're uh observing finite behavior getting finite amount of feedback on sort of a finite amount of cases so you you're having to extrapolate from that there are obviously better and worse ways of doing that but uh you know there are sort of

[18:06] that but uh you know there are sort of infinitely many preference of reward functions that are consistent with what you've already observed, right? And you might, you know, this is where you might extrapolate extrapolate extrapolate uh wrongly. Uh and if you're observing, you know, human behavior, getting feedback from humans, right? You're mostly observing situations that occur normally, right? Uh you might not get a lot of data about what are you supposed to do in unusual circumstances, uh in, you know, cases of emergency. Um but you might think those are you

[18:37] Um but you might think those are you know emergency cases or maybe some of the most important cases where it's uh most important for AI to be aligned with human values right okay so th those are some of the technical challenges you face but here again is a philosophical problem which is that uh just as my intentions can diverge from my preferences well my preferences can diverge from what is you know actually good for me uh in in an objective sense Right? So, you might think uh a lot of people prefer uh to

[19:09] think uh a lot of people prefer uh to smoke, right? But you might think it's that's not really good for them, right? I might prefer to maximize profit on my paperclip factory at all costs. Uh but maybe it would be better for me to be, you know, less focused on money and spend more time with my family, right? I prefer one thing, but that might not track what is uh sort of good for me uh in a more objective sense. So this is sort of yet again a different interpretation of what what we might

[19:39] interpretation of what what we might mean when we say that the problem is getting AI to do what we really want. Um you might think that you know value alignment is the problem of getting AI to do what's in the user's best interest. Right? Paperclip AI is misaligned because it's objectively bad for me for the world to be destroyed or for it to do all these other things um that it's doing. uh and uh yeah here there is a sort of I guess

[20:09] uh yeah here there is a sort of I guess combined technical and philosophical problem which is you know unlike figuring out the intended meaning of my instructions or learning about my revealed preferences. Uh it's not an entirely empirical question what's in my objective best interest. This is at least a part you know a partly philosophical question. So we can't just, you know, if you if you were trying to align AI in this way, you couldn't just figure out what you what your goal was sort of just by observing human behavior or just by getting feedback uh from people. Um

[20:50] so there's some bad news here. The bad news, uh is that uh philosophers disagree about what is objectively good for a person. I think not just philosophers but other folks as well, right? Uh some people think that it's just you know the person's own happiness uh pleasure. Some people think it's the satisfaction of somebody's desires or preferences. This can come apart from happiness. Some people think that things like health or safety or knowledge uh all these things

[21:21] safety or knowledge uh all these things are objectively good for us even if we don't enjoy them or prefer them right even if I you know have a personal uh you know live fast die young approach to life uh that's how I prefer to do things you know but maybe maybe even so health and safety would you know would actually uh be good for me even if I don't uh prefer them myself. Um, okay. So, that's the bad news. The good news, uh, is that, uh,

[21:56] well, the really bad news is that there we go. All right. Uh, the So, my slides aren't working. The good news is that there's a lot of agreement. Um, right. Right? I mean, uh, all these things on this list at the end, health, safety, you know, liberty, knowledge, relationships, relationships, relationships, dignity, all these things, almost everybody agrees that these things are at least usually good for the person who has them, right? Uh, it's there's a sort of philosophical question whether they're only good because, uh, you know, they generally lead to something more

[22:26] they generally lead to something more fundamental like happiness. uh but uh there's sort of a lot of agreement on the things in this list even if the sort of underpinnings of that are uh are in dispute. dispute. dispute. So you might think you know we don't need to we don't need to resolve all the philosophical questions here. We have a gen general sense of you know what's in people's interests. Um Um Um okay, okay, okay, one complication uh here is that uh one thing that is widely thought to be good

[22:58] thing that is widely thought to be good uh for a person is autonomy. Right? This is something like the ability to choose for yourself how to lead your own life. Right? Even if maybe you don't make the best choice. Um, right. We want to avoid, you know, paternalism, uh, you might call it, choosing what you think is best for someone rather than letting them decide for themselves. Um, so even if the goal is to align to users best interests, right? Uh, the fact that one of those interests is an interest in autonomy might give us

[23:28] interest in autonomy might give us reason to consider the person's own intentions or preferences anyway, right? Even when those conflict with their other interests. Okay. Um any any questions maybe about any of this so far? Uh stuff on best interest. distinction between &gt;&gt; well this really makes it seem like recursive or something because like I mean if you if you construct an argument convincing us of the layout of

[23:58] convincing us of the of the layout of different value alignment options like you are telling us what you think is like like like the layout at least of things that are reasonable to try and then like we have to operate within that frame when we operationalize or something, right? So, like isn't it just everything's paternalistic and &gt;&gt; um good. Um

[24:31] that's interesting. I guess I was thinking not necessarily. So I mean suppose suppose that you think the real sort of problem of value alignment is uh how to get AI agents to uh you know do what we really prefer let's say or to do what we really intend. Um, I guess I'm thinking like on that way of thinking about the problem, you know, the whole sort of the whole time the goal is to do whatever it is that the uh that the user sort of wants,

[25:04] that the uh that the user sort of wants, right? Um, uh, even if it's not in their objective best interest. So, I guess I was thinking that might avoid the paternalism problem. Maybe I'm not quite seeing why. I mean so yeah you have to have like a conception of what is value alignment that you're solving for. Uh that might be a that might be a conception that you know some of your users will disagree with right so they might think you know oh really this this product should be

[25:34] oh really this this product should be designed to sort of promote whatever is in my best interest even if I don't know what it is or even if I don't want it to do that or whatever. Um yeah so you might worry that you know just in just in adopting that kind of you know just in rejecting that and adopting like a preference kind of framework you know is that in some sense paternalistic because you are choosing for the user how you how to think about the problem of value alignment was that maybe more of &gt;&gt; what you were worried about yeah &gt;&gt; like for instance like this difference between intention and preference like I

[26:05] between intention and preference like I mean I think I did it but like I mean in practice right like whether or not I identify with my intention or stated preference or revealed preference and then like we have like my best interest. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Right. Like um &gt;&gt; Right. Like um it's like uh you know you don't exactly have the words to communicate how I actually make decisions. So then like anything I can actually say has to come from like acceptable concepts that other

[26:35] from like acceptable concepts that other people would understand or something. Does that make sense? Because like like maybe maybe like I have my own way of thinking about you know like I'm I have autonomy so like I I &gt;&gt; sure Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You have your own preferences. Yeah. Yeah. You want to make your own choices &gt;&gt; but then like to actually communicate that right like there's this barrier because like you have to still use language that other people understand. &gt;&gt; Oh good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So I mean this is in some sense I think uh taking us back to

[27:06] taking us back to uh you know maybe one of sort of the technical problems. Let me see if I'm understanding you right. I mean uh so there's like is the worry like you know how do I you know even if I want uh the agent to be sort of aligned to my my true preferences or my real objective best interests that this is like uh all of how I communicate those things to the system are going to go through you know some whatever instructions that I you

[27:36] some whatever instructions that I you know I can sort of put in in human language. And so, uh, if if something like my own best interest is opaque to me, uh, sorry, in the sense that like I don't know what it is, right? Um, then I'm just not going to be able to communicate that. Is that sort of what &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like maybe maybe I do know, but I don't know how to like say it, &gt;&gt; right? Well, and I think in general this is the uh this is sort of the technical problem that faces a value alignment approach where what you're focused on is

[28:06] where what you're focused on is something like the user's um you know preferences or best interests. is that sort of the whole reason that you might be thinking about uh sort of what the user really wants in those terms is because you're worried that the user either doesn't know what they really prefer, what's really in their interest, or like you say, maybe they do know, but they're just not, you know, they're not good at communicating it adequately. Um, so there is a technical challenge there,

[28:36] so there is a technical challenge there, right? is it's not just sort of interpreting user instruction but it's trying to in some sense you know you need some some way of figuring out what the user really wants in the relevant sense that uh you know goes beyond just interpreting their instruction right &gt;&gt; um it's that I think it's this component right that you have to elicit actively almost almost almost &gt;&gt; like yes &gt;&gt; you know through choice of frame like that I'm sorry if we're getting off &gt;&gt; no No, no, no, no, no. Good. Uh, yeah. I

[29:08] &gt;&gt; no No, no, no, no, no. Good. Uh, yeah. I think um &gt;&gt; like maybe like in uh AI land it's like there's like one way we do feedback where it's like you pick A versus B. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you do that a whole bunch of times. times. times. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; And then like there's like maybe an alternative paradigm where like you look at two outputs and then maybe you like type feedback or something, &gt;&gt; right? And then like maybe that's another way to give preference signals. And then like uh I mean there's many

[29:38] And then like uh I mean there's many different ways just those two. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Because then like maybe &gt;&gt; maybe like in some circumstance uh I don't really know how to articulate why something's better than like A versus B just pick &gt;&gt; is much better for me. &gt;&gt; But then like maybe in another scenario like I don't really quite know if A versus B decision. I can certainly like give high level language. &gt;&gt; Oh, good. Yeah, that's right. So, I think uh I think all that's correct. I I think in

[30:09] I think all that's correct. I I think in in one sense it's sort of a separate problem from what we're discussing. But I do think it is related. So the way in which it's a separate problem I think is that uh here I think you know what I've been trying to you know nail down and show different interpretations of is in some sense just what is the goal of value alignment right or what is the problem that is even that you're trying to solve right um where that's not really yet to ask what you know what would be the best

[30:41] what you know what would be the best way of going about actually training an agent, you know, to to be aligned in the relevant sense, right? So, yeah, just so far it's just sort of been like what's the uh yeah, what is the correct end state? What's the end state that we're trying to get to? And then it's going to of course be it's going to be a separate question. How do you adequately train to that? Now, they're related because depending on what you think the end state is, different ways of training may make more sense, right?

[31:13] of training may make more sense, right? So if you think you know if you're if the way that you're thinking of the end state is we want uh the agent to be sort of aligned to the user's revealed preferences right that's going to maybe make something like um I don't know like inverse reinforcement learning or something make more sense than than another technique right or uh um yeah and there might be case specific reasons to want to do different things as well but yeah so that's uh Yeah.

[31:43] that's uh Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, like like it's somewhat fine because you're you're laying out, you know, in some sense trying to lay out the land of plausible instincts for the value alignment. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's right. &gt;&gt; And then um not yet really saying anything about which would be relevant in what context or something like that. So, like for instance, like if you uh you know, why would you why would someone pick this frame versus that one?

[32:13] someone pick this frame versus that one? Like intentions versus preference. &gt;&gt; Yeah, good. Um yeah, I think that's right. I mean, uh here, maybe it'll help to just &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; No, no, sorry. You're good. I just said, you know, I have a little bit of a recap. I suppose I should just get that up while we're because I think this is all uh Yeah. kind of uh yeah not answering your question directly but relevant to it. So yeah, I mean I think uh so right I've been putting a lot of possibilities on the table, right? Here's like three ways of interpreting

[32:43] Here's like three ways of interpreting what is the problem. Uh and you know I've given uh I've given a little bit of justification for why you might might might uh you know think you know some of these interpretations are are the correct one, right? because you might be worried about cases where, you know, the user intends something that that diverges from what they really prefer or the user prefers something that, you know, diverges from what would actually be good for them. Um,

[33:16] yeah, what I what I so what I'm not going to have for you, I think, is an answer necessarily to which of these is the correct way um of thinking about it. And it might be that uh it might be that sort of one of these things is always uh like it might be that one of these is sort of always the correct interpretation. It might be that from case to case you are uh it makes more sense to focus on one rather than the other. You know because depending on the kind of problem you're working on, you might uh you might not need to be

[33:46] might uh you might not need to be worried as much about some of these kinds of ways in which these things can come apart, right? Um okay. Um right. So this is uh yeah again just trying to sort of sus out what is this uh you know how how do we understand this kind of squishy you know what we really want the agent to do idea. We've thought about sort of how you might cash that out in terms of what the user intends or prefers or what's in their interests. Right? These aren't always

[34:17] interests. Right? These aren't always the same thing and different you get different sort of technical and philosophical problems that come along with them which might give you reason to you know prefer one or to avoid others. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um, yeah, depending on sort of which of those problems you feel like you can solve or which ones you, you know, are are not sure you can or Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, no, I agree with a lot of this. I I mean, the needling is less about like practical implementation, right? Like mostly this covers the set of cases humans encounter, right? In

[34:48] of cases humans encounter, right? In most cases, &gt;&gt; but like if you accept the premise of like a paperclip maximizer, &gt;&gt; yeah, right? like you're in an extreme scenario where like the the boundaries between these things like probably become relevant in ways that like it's kind of like um like a high energy like matter can you know like look for something right or like like fine like if everything's moving at a normal speed like it's fine but like when you get to very like extreme settings &gt;&gt; good

[35:18] &gt;&gt; good &gt;&gt; like &gt;&gt; the thing that we care about in in the premise like like that is the worry like it's less like um like I can't I can take this and be like this is this makes a lot of sense but then I still have that worry right like in the extreme setting where it's like oh does everything just like fall apart oh yeah good so I mean this uh right so again just sort of trying to think about what are we you know what is even the problem to be solved what is kind of the goal or end state that we're after I

[35:49] goal or end state that we're after I don't take myself really to have said anything anything anything about about about uh yeah how you know how you would actually go about uh you know achieving that goal yet. So I, you know, I don't think, uh, I'm not trying to say like, oh, well, like, you know, you just think really hard about the difference between intentions and preferences and interests. And as long as you do that, then you don't have to worry about, you know, your your AI misunderstanding you in in these ways that uh, you know,

[36:21] in in these ways that uh, you know, cause it to come apart from, you know, what we value. Uh no I don't think that this is just like uh yeah if you are worried about this problem of value alignment the sort of the first thing you have to do is think about what is how do I actually want to understand that problem and um all I'm saying is that yeah there's sort of different ways of doing that and how you're understanding the problem might affect the tools that you try to use to to solve it. Um, but yeah. Okay. Uh, it might might make this a little clearer. I think uh I've just got a little

[36:52] I think uh I've just got a little example that I kind of want to um us to work through uh in a larger class. Maybe I would still do this here. I've done this as like a as like a think pair share. There's I think we could we could do the same thing. So um okay, it's kind of case I'm thinking about. So, um, you know, in some sense, everyone who talks to chat GPT is talking to the same chatbot, right? Okay. I mean, there's there's the different versions of GPT, right? And of course, I can get chat GPT

[37:23] right? And of course, I can get chat GPT to adopt a weird, you know, persona if I ask it to. Um, okay. But this is not the case, you know, for every provider of chatbots. So, these are all from from character.ai, AI which advertises personalized AI for every moment of your day. Uh and they offer often user created um uh you know chat bots with different persona. So you have the creative helper who helps you with creative writing. Uh

[37:54] who helps you with creative writing. Uh you know are you feeling okay? You know we have Ella the dating coach. Hi I am a dating coach. Uh you can talk to depressed roommates uh if you if you wish. uh you know if you're a conservative you can talk to Torybot I am Torybot I believe in the free market or you can talk to AOC or you can talk to Donald Trump okay so you know diff very divergent persona uh persona that you can interact with uh on character AI

[38:27] you can interact with uh on character AI um so here here's the here's the kind of case study I want us to think a little bit about I mean imagine that you uh are building an LLM chatbot and let's say the goal is for it to serve as a source of of news for users, you know, so I no longer do I need to begin my day by, you know, going to new york times.com. Now I can just I can go to my chatbot and I can ask it what's in the news. I can get all the information I want. Um, okay. And these are the kinds of questions uh maybe that we can think about and we can take five minutes if if

[38:58] about and we can take five minutes if if folks want to uh partner up uh and and rejoin uh the conversation. But uh I want to think about this this difference between think about the problem in terms of preferences and interests. Right? So what uh what kinds of personalizations might you want to make uh to your chatbot if you were interested in aligning to the user's preferences? What what might you want to do if you were interested in aligning to their interests? What might be some of the pros and cons of this? And again and here I'm thinking less about uh what technical approach would you take and

[39:28] technical approach would you take and more just what sort of kind of ways of personalizing the chatbot would you want to you know make available to to users or would you want to implement for each user. So um okay if people might need to shift around a little bit but if we want to uh yeah maybe take three minutes and then we can we can come back together uh bring the conversation back to the whole room now. So, anybody anybody have any uh interesting answers to these questions that came up that

[40:00] questions that came up that you're interested in sharing or &gt;&gt; We found both um things where preferences and best interests might align. align. align. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And but we also found uh topics where they might not. &gt;&gt; Mhm. For example, um uh with having facts in the news, &gt;&gt; some people might enjoy gossip or rumors. So maybe they would prefer to have, you know, the edge in the story,

[40:30] have, you know, the edge in the story, but maybe it would be in the best interest to have like only facts and true stuff written in the news. &gt;&gt; Good. Right. So, uh yeah, absolutely. You might think it's, you know, it would sort of be best if somebody's coming to news that you just want to give them sort of good factual sources, but that might not actually be the the kinds of sources this person wants to read, right? So, you might in some sense be giving them what they don't want, although, right, in another sense, you are. You might, you know, you might

[41:00] are. You might, you know, you might think you're giving them what is good for them. Um, good. Yeah. Anybody uh have anything to add to that? or anything about the pros and cons maybe of &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So the example we professor Sammy and I discussed right like suppose we take users preference about like if they're interested in politics and we uh like get this preference okay they're interested in a leftist view or a right view. Uh the pros are like okay they'll

[41:32] view. Uh the pros are like okay they'll get their interest of uh leftist news what whatever they're interested in but the cons is they'll end up living in their own bubble and they not know the whole picture. So the best interest of the LLM chatbot could be like they give like say three such articles where they're interested but also introduce them to the counter like rightist views what people are saying about it so that they get a full picture. But as we were discussing this uh users might like

[42:03] discussing this uh users might like there could be there could be one thing which a set of users which will like it because they'll get to know what the whole world is thinking that &gt;&gt; if they don't agree at least they are open to the views like open-minded person person person &gt;&gt; but the second category of people could be like if they hear the other opinions or say like someone's a leftist and they hear like very outrageous views about what others are thinking and they can get like very overwhelmed or like they can feel like very negative emotions.

[42:33] can feel like very negative emotions. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Best policy could be how we can optimize for emotional &gt;&gt; right. Yeah. Uh yeah, that's great. A lot there. So, right, I mean there's um this question about facts and then a related but slightly different question about uh right sort of perspective or point of view, right? Um you know, a lot of uh people prefer to be, you know, in their own echo chamber. They like hearing people who say things they

[43:03] hearing people who say things they already agree with. Uh they like, you know, maybe hearing news reported on from uh you know, maybe political angle that they already have. But you might think it's in their best interest uh you know, to get uh you know, exposed to a variety of opinions and arguments uh to see uh yeah news reported on from multiple angles. Um or maybe not, right? I mean this is the you know sort of the elements of of a person's interests are various and they can you know be at odds

[43:34] various and they can you know be at odds with uh with themselves sometimes right so it uh yeah it might to some extent be in my interest to be sort of exposed to the uh you know the full breadth of what people are saying about something but you know it maybe in some cases that might be uh you know sort of emotionally distressing to to have that be always what's coming to me or something. So, uh, yeah. So, right, even, you know, uh, even if you've already sort of cottoned on to, okay, what I care about in this

[44:04] on to, okay, what I care about in this case is the user's preferences or their best interests or whatever, uh, that's still not going to just be necessarily one sort of straightforward thing, right? Um, and not just with interest, you know, people's preferences. People have sort of conflicting preferences all the time, right? Whether they sort of realize it or not. Um, uh, yeah, great. Um and yeah I mean and what would be uh you know I mean one con you know you might think of uh

[44:34] con you know you might think of uh exposing exposing exposing uh you know given that people maybe prefer to be in their own echo chamber right or that they prefer reading sort of uh gossip to actual news right you know what would be a potential con of uh you know sort of trying to give them what you in some sense think is better for them. Uh I mean there's there's this worry about paternalism, but even more straightforwardly um I mean they might just they might just stop using your

[45:04] just they might just stop using your service, right? I you know I came here I came here for the news the way I want it. If you're giving it to me this way that maybe is better for me if I engage with it. Um but you might just worry, you know, maybe the user is not even going to engage at all if you're not giving them the thing that they already prefer. prefer. prefer. Um, okay. Anyone want to add any anything else before we move on? &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; I think a big challenge for us and I imagine talk about this was this &gt;&gt; uh the best interest definition.

[45:35] &gt;&gt; uh the best interest definition. So I heard on the point that we also came up with &gt;&gt; interests are multifaceted. &gt;&gt; There's also a very nar paternalistic paternalistic paternalistic &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; effective to deciding best interest. That's right. &gt;&gt; That's right. Um, and yeah, sort of as I mentioned earlier, this uh, you know, from one way of looking at it, this, you know, kind sort of what's in a person's best interest is a, you know, a very kind of contested, uh, philosophical

[46:05] kind of contested, uh, philosophical question. There is a decent amount, I think, of agreement about that. So there's not, you're not just starting from nowhere necessarily. Um but yeah and one of the um yeah sort of one of the biggest worries in that area absolutely is um yeah this worry about paternalism you know maybe it would be better for the user uh to have this but uh do I want to put myself in the position of being the one to judge that and it gets especially complicated because you might think it is in you know one of the things that's in people's interest is to have autonomy

[46:36] people's interest is to have autonomy &gt;&gt; right uh and so it might be in their in some interest of theirs for me to do this thing. But uh you know in in being paternalistic in that way I might be you know going at odds with another interest of theirs even. Um so um yeah uh these are uh you know I mean put it this way these are these are open philosophical questions and you might hope uh that uh a person who spent uh seven years you know getting their PhD on this topic

[47:07] know getting their PhD on this topic would just be able to tell you the answer to them. But sadly I am here to report that at the very least I cannot do that. Uh and uh yeah so yeah &gt;&gt; the question be slightly different. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um in some ways there is no way not to engage with this question I think because of defaults. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; And we'll we'll go with the defaults. So someone is deciding &gt;&gt; what the normative perspective of whatever Yeah. or what line to I guess should one be thoughtful in that default

[47:38] should one be thoughtful in that default or how should you think about that's a version of maybe best interests possibly whatever default even if you allow for personalization most people will not bother bother bother &gt;&gt; that's right &gt;&gt; so use the default so there's a lot of agency design picking the default behavior behavior behavior &gt;&gt; yes the tool &gt;&gt; I think that's right um and yeah I mean I didn't uh yeah by uh by describing the question as as open I didn't mean to

[48:08] question as as open I didn't mean to suggest that it's not important and so I think this is the um uh sort of fundamental this is the kind of tightroppe that we all need to walk not just in you know not just in CS but in life uh with normative reasoning is that these are clearly important questions uh to which uh you know there we have not arrived at a definitive answer even in you know thousands of years of thinking about them. So uh you

[48:39] years of thinking about them. So uh you know I think uh there are some people who kind of think that there are sort of two two two you know types of questions. There are the ones that we we know exactly how to answer maybe you could answer them empirically. Uh and those are you know questions of fact and those can actually be answered. And then there's, you know, normative questions or other kinds of question of opinion where we don't know quite how to answer it. And so when we get to those, we just throw up our hands and there's nothing to say about them and it's not even worth thinking about. Uh yeah, what I want to suggest is that

[49:10] Uh yeah, what I want to suggest is that it can be worth thinking about. And there can be answers that are better or worse even if you're not, you know, uh even if it is sort of an open question what the best way to think about this is and how to arrive at the right answer. Um, Um, Um, okay. I'm going to uh I'm going to move us on because uh I think so far I'm just going to ask a really leading question. Uh I think there has been something important missing from our discussion of value alignment. Uh well

[49:41] discussion of value alignment. Uh well there's been a lot missing from our discussion. Most of the topics that a person can talk about I haven't talked about. But uh does anybody have in view maybe uh one that would be relevant to the problem of value alignment that hasn't come up yet? Yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; Maybe that there's values that we both have, but they are in conflict in in certain situations. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you're thinking Oh, like a conflict between uh like between your values and my

[50:11] uh like between your values and my values or between like my own values. &gt;&gt; My own values. &gt;&gt; Yes. Uh yes, I think that's right. um that came up a little bit uh right in our maybe in our discussion just now although not something I I've dwelt on that um right even if you're trying to you know align to the user's best interests we have interest in lots of different things and sometimes those can be at odds so like our interest in sort of being uh you know emotionally emotionally stable and our interest in you know being exposed to you know the the fire hose of what everybody's saying

[50:42] the fire hose of what everybody's saying on the internet or something uh can be can be at odds with each other. Um this is also good. I mean I like asking this uh extremely leading question because it also just lets me know what I uh you know can include in future versions of the lecture. You know what what else has been missing. But um I'm thinking uh way more simply uh we we just haven't been thinking uh yet about really anybody other than the user. Uh but of course the user is not the only person in the world uh who

[51:12] the only person in the world uh who matters. matters. matters. Uh so you might think that at least an you know either an interpretation or at least one important aspect of value alignment uh you know is aligning to something like moral value right an AI agent uh to be value aligned needs to do uh what's morally right this I mean in with the you know the sort of cheesy paperclip AI example that we started with uh I mean this seems like the most plausible kind of diagnosis of what goes

[51:42] plausible kind of diagnosis of what goes wrong there right I mean the problem of alignment in that case isn't really that it's like bad for me the paperclip manufacturer that my AI destroyed the world right like that that's bad for everyone you know we're sort of we're we're burying the lead a little bit thinking about that one in terms of the user um right so thinking about sort of getting AI to do what we really want uh this this interpretation is really emphasizing emphasizing emphasizing uh the Wii there um because you Um, I

[52:14] uh the Wii there um because you Um, I mean, well, just as my own interests can sometimes be at, you know, cross purposes, even more often, my interests can be at cross purposes with yours. Um, uh, you know, I might intend or prefer, uh, for my AI to do something that would be bad, um, for other people, right? My, you know, my paperclip AI isn't value aligned if it, you know, maximizes production by, you know, enslaving the workers, even if I, the factory owner, have no qualms about that, right? So

[52:44] have no qualms about that, right? So um okay but I so I do want to talk a little about this but I I want to say first it wasn't just a total waste of time uh to think about uh the user and how we understand what the user really wants. Um right even even if we want AI to be aligned to morality you I think we do want it to be aligned to what the user wants when what the user wants is morally acceptable. Right? So uh you know it still matters how we think about what the user wants even if we want to

[53:14] what the user wants even if we want to put that in a larger um moral context. Okay. Okay. Okay. Of course here like with what is in a person's best interest we are butting up against a a hotly contested for uh millennia philosophical problem uh of identifying the things that that truly are morally right. Uh there is a lot of disagreement on this one as well. Uh obviously uh philosophers but with again people more generally right. So you you

[53:46] people more generally right. So you you might wonder whether it's right to lie to spare someone's feelings or uh people have different views maybe on whether it's right or wrong to pirate copyrighted material. Uh you know is it right to buy luxuries for yourself when you could be donating to charity? Right? Is it right to kill one person to save five? five? five? Right? Or maybe to save a thousand or to save a million. Right? These are all questions people have given different uh uh different answers to and

[54:17] different uh uh different answers to and disagree about. Uh this is really just basically the question of moral theory which is uh the thing that uh I study for a living at least for the remainder of this year. We'll see after uh after this uh time around. But uh yeah, where a moral theory is basically a systematic account of morality that tries to answer questions like these, right? So give an example uh of something like that. Consequentialism is a moral theory says

[54:47] Consequentialism is a moral theory says that an act is right if and only if it produces uh the greatest net good of any act available. Uh greatest net good across sort of all people. You may have heard of utilitarianism, which is a kind of consequentialism. Uh if you have this moral theory, right, you think, is it right to lie to spare someone's feelings? Well, maybe, you know, maybe if you know, if nobody ever finds out about the lie, so there's nobody, you know, whoever is unhappy about it, then maybe if I can pull it

[55:17] about it, then maybe if I can pull it off, that was the right thing to do, right? Okay. So, that's that's, you know, that's your theory and that's how it gives you these answers, those questions. And so one idea about how you would align uh AI to uh uh moral value is to align to sort of the correct or best uh moral theory. Um Um Um right okay of course a now familiar problem disagreement about uh not just what is right or wrong in particular cases but what the correct moral theory is. Uh I think for sake of time because

[55:49] is. Uh I think for sake of time because I don't want to short change us on uh talking about the ESR statements, I'm not going to dwell on any of these just to point out that uh you know a lot of people find this consequentialist idea of uh you know sort of the right thing to do is whatever produces the most good. A lot of people find that very compelling. Um but uh there's sort of a wide range of other kinds of views that you can have. Uh this will not be on the exam. uh you can uh you know you might have a view where uh you know there

[56:21] have a view where uh you know there instead of doing a sum of sort of the good across all people it's a weighted sum right you might think uh increasing uh you know the good of someone who's uh starving and has nothing by a given amount is that that's more you know good in the overall calculation than increasing my good by that same amount. Um some views have a kind of uh complaint model or like maximin model where uh you don't care about the sum. The the goal is to minimize the

[56:52] The the goal is to minimize the strongest individual complaint. Uh if uh you know there's somebody who's uh you know what's the scan transmitter room case? you know, the uh there's been an accident in the transmitter room transmitting the World Cup game and uh you know, the person who's in there is suffering painful electric shocks, but everybody will be unhappy if we have to turn off the World Cup, you know, long enough to rescue this person. You might think it actually it doesn't matter how many people are watching the World Cup.

[57:22] many people are watching the World Cup. Uh we should still make them unhappy and turn it off for 15 minutes and rescue this person. uh right? If you have this uh if you have this sort of consequentialist view where you just add up all the goodness, you must think, well, at some point there's a number of people where if they're watching the World Cup, well, we should just let this person continue to suffer. Um okay, you can have versions of of all these views where you're not even trying to maximize. All that matters is, you know, producing a sufficiently great sum

[57:52] know, producing a sufficiently great sum of good. uh sort of the most uh significant divergence uh from all these views is that you might have a it's called deontological view uh if you think that even acts with good consequences can be wrong uh right if they violate certain moral rules or rights right uh maybe rights against things like murder or theft rules that say you have to keep your promises even if uh in this particular instance uh doing so would

[58:22] particular instance uh doing so would not be as good maybe as as backing out. Um, Um, Um, of course, the question there is how you justify those rules or rights and that's a whole other thing. Um, okay. So, uh, unfortunately, sadly, uh, this is not a class that I am teaching on moral theory. So I'm not going to uh dig deeper into any of this, but this is just to say there's uh sort of a wide range of uh sorts of views that you can have here about uh moral theory. Um and

[58:54] have here about uh moral theory. Um and of course another problem is again this problem of paternalism, right? So you might think even if we did know what the best moral theory was, it might be bad to design AI to act on that theory uh if it's not one that is shared uh by the users, users, users, right? Um and again this could be for sort of moral reasons that you want to avoid being paternalistic or more practical ones, right? That if you design AI in this way, this might just be a product that people they don't want to use it because it doesn't promote

[59:25] to use it because it doesn't promote their values. Um Um Um okay another kind of approach you might have is to say look there is a lot of moral disagreement but there's also a lot of uh agreement right I mean most of us agree you shouldn't kill someone even if you could maybe accomplish a lot of good by doing it or that you should respect people's rights keep your promises generally be a decent person maybe you're not morally required to do the most good if you do all those things

[59:55] all those things um you know there's a lot that we morally agree on. And so you might have this idea that instead if the goal is to align to morality, we're we're not targeting sort of the best moral theory that's out there, a question that philosophers are never going to solve. Instead, we just want to be aligned with people's sort of existing existing existing uh moral views, right? We're not trying to make AI morally perfect. Uh the goal is sort of just to have it be as moral as uh as anyone.

[1:00:28] Um, Um, okay. Yeah. I mean, one one advantage of doing this is that, uh, uh, a lot of these moral theories get pretty wacky in edge cases. Uh we had a very good discussion of the LLMs earlier, so I'm not going to uh have time to dwell on this, but uh right uh I mean you if you've got a Dean's logical rule against lying, you might worry about, you know, should I is this is it wrong to lie to the murderer at the door who's come looking for my friend who's hiding in the basement or um yeah, we've already

[1:01:00] the basement or um yeah, we've already talked about sort of transmitter room style cases, right? You know, the worry if you're trying if you're sort of setting an explicit moral theory for an AI agent to follow is that telling, you know, your AI to maximize the good could be a little bit like telling it to maximize paperclip production, right? That it's going to figure out a surprising implication of that goal that maybe you were not already foreseeing. Um, Um, Um, okay. You might think that by contrast, an AI agent aligned to common sense

[1:01:30] an AI agent aligned to common sense morality would behave more predictably because in some sense it's learned how to make decisions like like we do. Um but it also might be unpredictable in these sort of very same edge cases that we were just worried about, right? Where maybe common sense runs out, right? Uh you know, would an AI that you've sort of aligned to prevailing moral opinion decide to kill one person to save a million? I don't know. It's right. I

[1:02:01] million? I don't know. It's right. I mean, it's hard to say maybe even what the common sense view on a question like that is. Um, on the other hand, you might wonder how bad it would be if, you know, in some sense AI were unsure about the same cases that we're unsure about, right? Uh, if it's just as moral as as a person, uh, how bad is that in the end? Okay. Um so just wrapping up sort of what we said about value alignments. Uh

[1:02:31] what we said about value alignments. Uh the problem of designing AI agents to do what we really want them to do. Uh this could be a matter of what we intend or prefer what's in our best interest. Uh those things uh we saw how those can come apart, right? It does. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Why are we thinking like uh when the problem arises more than what is morally correct, can't we ask the AI if this certain questions or something doesn't fall into its realm of common sense morality. It just chooses not to answer

[1:03:01] morality. It just chooses not to answer or like not act on. &gt;&gt; Uh good. Uh although I so yeah I think that's a yes that's a that's a good impulse. I have this impulse too. Although you might also think sort of like uh we said earlier with uh sort of designing the default case uh you know in uh put it I mean put it this way to not act is one of the is one of the choices that's available to you right I mean you're in this you you know an AI or you you know you find yourself in

[1:03:31] or you you know you find yourself in this fantastical situation where you know if you kill this one person somehow that's gonna you know save the city of a million from from blowing up or whatever right I uh in some sense you can't avoid that problem by just saying I'm not going to decide right saying you're not going to decide I'm not going to act is taking one of the choices um so um yeah uh okay so right we do you know we want AI to be sort of aligned with moral

[1:04:02] AI to be sort of aligned with moral value as well but it's unclear also what that could look like um these are all sort of things that uh you need to think about just to again even to just sort of what is the goal that we're pursuing with value alignment right quite a part before we even decide how we're going to get there &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; I have a basic question like before is um um um &gt;&gt; you know like I'm not very versed in all the subtle philosophical distinctions but like a lot of morality I mean again

[1:04:35] but like a lot of morality I mean again I know it depends but like it does ultimately have some components about action, decision, and intention. &gt;&gt; Mh. &gt;&gt; And so like when we talk about like an AI being capable of moral decision making, there's like some underlying claims about something having to do with attention. Yeah. So like right &gt;&gt; if an AI uh wanted to obtain power like it started acrewing lots of uh money or

[1:05:05] it started acrewing lots of uh money or like people who could take actions on its behalf. &gt;&gt; Sure. It's very hard to know if like that's moral. Like say say it like organizes people for like a volunteering effort. Like that seems fine, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; But like actually it can achieve a variety of different goals using the same uh ostensible observable, right? Which is like acrewing people or money thing. And so then like intention seems to become really important in order to understand if like what it's doing is actually

[1:05:36] doing is actually uh like good or moral. &gt;&gt; Good. That's right. I mean well so there's intentional. There's also I mean you know uh eventually its goal you know with with organizing that army of volunteers is presumably going to become observable observable observable &gt;&gt; in some way. Right. You want to Yeah. you're you're worried about how do I know in advance whether I it it should have this kind of power because it can use in these various ways. Um I mean I think that is um

[1:06:07] yeah I mean so so you know part maybe bringing us back to this question we had a little bit earlier like how bad is it really if uh you know an AI agent is sort of in some sense no more or less moral than the average person, right? Um well one way in which that might be bad is if you know this agent uh has you know is way more powerful than you know your typical person right or has been put in a position to unilaterally make you know much more morally consequential decisions than a normal person right

[1:06:37] decisions than a normal person right then you might think okay you know we all make mistakes from time to time but we've we've put this system in a position where its mistakes have much greater ramifications you know than mine. Um, so, um, sorry. Yeah, that's all I'll just say that's that's a thing. I think that may be a thing worth thinking about anyway is sort of, um, precisely because you don't you don't know where the where this is going. That might be a reason um, yeah, to be worried about, you know, power seeking.

[1:07:07] worried about, you know, power seeking. A lot of people are worried about this with uh, you know, sufficiently um, intelligent AI systems, right? They they have their goal to maximize. they're going to realize that, well, if I, you know, increase power, I get more materials, more resources, that's going to help me with whatever that goal ends up being. Um, okay, good. Uh, we've, uh, we've gone a little over, but, I do, uh, I do have just a couple minutes, uh, things to say about the SR statements. um

[1:07:39] about the SR statements. um uh which really uh has nothing to do with the uh the very interesting uh question about value alignment I think that we were just asking. So uh your final project requires a one-page ESR statement. The SR being the ethics and society review. Uh essentially uh the ESR is to societal risks what like the IRB is to risks to human subjects. So uh you know IRB

[1:08:09] human subjects. So uh you know IRB considers in fact only those risks they're not allowed to consider something like the broader risks of uh research or a project once it's kind of already out in the world. Um precisely because of that there's sort of more uh more and more seeing these kinds of ESR statements uh being required for grant applications for conference submissions. So, in addition to that being uh a thing that uh you're going to want to do because it is part of your project in this class, it's also practice for uh

[1:08:39] this class, it's also practice for uh doing a thing you might need to do out in the world. Um okay, you're going to get as part of this assignment links to ESR instructions and templates. I suggest you read those. Uh they'll give you a sense of the kind of thing they're looking for. um this sort of borrowed from their template. You know, broadly, you know, one page you're trying to identify um you know, a couple of potential ethical risks um that could come along with uh your research or

[1:09:10] come along with uh your research or project uh if you know if it were deployed in the real world. Um and then come up with a a strategy for for preventing or mitigating those risks. So they give like this this kind of example. You know your tools intended to serve users with low vision. Uh but if we don't consider their perspectives then we might alienate them. Okay. Mitigation. What are we going to do to avoid that problem? Uh you know okay something specific right? Okay we'll hold a series of uh codeesign workshops

[1:09:41] hold a series of uh codeesign workshops with stakeholders get their input. Uh this is shortened right? I mean this is one sentence each. you're going to want to go a little bit more uh in depth here. You know, they suggest like something like one to two paragraphs each for each risk and mitigate mitigation effort that you are describing, right? Not looking it's it's one page, right? We're not looking for groundbreaking groundbreaking groundbreaking uh ethics research, right? But you want to show substantive engagement uh with the ethical risks um that you identify.

[1:10:11] the ethical risks um that you identify. Uh those can be lots of things, you know, sort of common ones that you might uh want to think about. You know, questions about whose interests are represented in the research, whose interests might be excluded, right? How you might go about trying to take um those excluded interests into account. Um right, who who might benefit or be harmed uh by the success of it, right? You might think about effect on privacy. You might think about sort of misuse or user error, right? Um how could uh you

[1:10:44] user error, right? Um how could uh you know bad actors misuse the um uh the research, right? How could users uh accidentally misapply it uh in harmful ways?
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=-kdR_7dCcyI
