# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Ethics

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=-kdR_7dCcyI
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:10:54 · Words: 36618
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/-kdR_7dCcyI.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=-kdR_7dCcyI

## Transcript
[0:09] I think we can get started then. Um, I think we can get started then. Um, okay. Uh, my name Dan Weber. I'm, uh, okay. Uh, my name Dan Weber. I'm, uh, okay. Uh, my name Dan Weber. I'm, uh, here to talk a little bit about, uh, here to talk a little bit about, uh, here to talk a little bit about, uh, value alignment and, uh, we'll also be value alignment and, uh, we'll also be value alignment and, uh, we'll also be talking at the end, uh, a bit about, uh, talking at the end, uh, a bit about, uh, talking at the end, uh, a bit about, uh, the ESR statements that you're going to the ESR statements that you're going to the ESR statements that you're going to have to do for, uh, your final projects. have to do for, uh, your final projects. have to do for, uh, your final projects. Um, okay. So, who's this guy? what's he Um, okay. So, who's this guy? what's he Um, okay. So, who's this guy? what's he doing here? Why should I care at all doing here? Why should I care at all doing here? Why should I care at all about what he has to say? Um I'm not about what he has to say? Um I'm not about what he has to say? Um I'm not sure if I'll be able to answer that last sure if I'll be able to answer that last sure if I'll be able to answer that last question, but uh I am a posttock here at

[0:39] question, but uh I am a posttock here at question, but uh I am a posttock here at Stanford uh in HAI and EIS, that's uh Stanford uh in HAI and EIS, that's uh Stanford uh in HAI and EIS, that's uh the Institute for Human Centered the Institute for Human Centered the Institute for Human Centered Artificial Intelligence and the Center Artificial Intelligence and the Center Artificial Intelligence and the Center for Ethics in Society. Um my job here in for Ethics in Society. Um my job here in for Ethics in Society. Um my job here in addition to you know doing uh research addition to you know doing uh research addition to you know doing uh research is uh embedding ethics into CS courses is uh embedding ethics into CS courses is uh embedding ethics into CS courses um mostly uh undergraduate courses but um mostly uh undergraduate courses but um mostly uh undergraduate courses but we've been uh expanding our reach into we've been uh expanding our reach into we've been uh expanding our reach into courses like this one. Um before I came courses like this one. Um before I came courses like this one. Um before I came here um got my PhD in philosophy at the here um got my PhD in philosophy at the here um got my PhD in philosophy at the University of Pittsburgh. Uh wrote my

[1:11] University of Pittsburgh. Uh wrote my University of Pittsburgh. Uh wrote my dissertation on uh moral theory which is dissertation on uh moral theory which is dissertation on uh moral theory which is uh you know basically just uh trying to uh you know basically just uh trying to uh you know basically just uh trying to think really hard and systematically think really hard and systematically think really hard and systematically about uh value. about uh value. about uh value. Uh before that I got my bachelor's in Uh before that I got my bachelor's in Uh before that I got my bachelor's in computer science worked for a couple of computer science worked for a couple of computer science worked for a couple of years um as a software developer. So, years um as a software developer. So, years um as a software developer. So, uh, I know my way around computer uh, I know my way around computer uh, I know my way around computer science a little bit. Uh, probably not science a little bit. Uh, probably not science a little bit. Uh, probably not as much as, uh, any of you. I took, uh, as much as, uh, any of you. I took, uh, as much as, uh, any of you. I took, uh, an introductory course on AI, uh, as an

[1:44] an introductory course on AI, uh, as an an introductory course on AI, uh, as an undergraduate. That was, uh, 10 years undergraduate. That was, uh, 10 years undergraduate. That was, uh, 10 years ago. Um, and I think the field has, uh, ago. Um, and I think the field has, uh, ago. Um, and I think the field has, uh, maybe changed a little bit since then. maybe changed a little bit since then. maybe changed a little bit since then. Uh, we definitely did not cover, uh, Uh, we definitely did not cover, uh, Uh, we definitely did not cover, uh, machine learning from human preferences. machine learning from human preferences. machine learning from human preferences. So uh you all are going to know the So uh you all are going to know the So uh you all are going to know the machine learning way better than I do. machine learning way better than I do. machine learning way better than I do. I'm not here today to be uh an expert on I'm not here today to be uh an expert on I'm not here today to be uh an expert on that. Um but I'm hoping to give you uh a that. Um but I'm hoping to give you uh a that. Um but I'm hoping to give you uh a little bit of window into uh how to little bit of window into uh how to little bit of window into uh how to think about value and how it might be uh

[2:14] think about value and how it might be uh think about value and how it might be uh more complicated uh sometimes than uh more complicated uh sometimes than uh more complicated uh sometimes than uh you might think. Um, you know, I think you might think. Um, you know, I think you might think. Um, you know, I think the the interesting questions about the the interesting questions about the the interesting questions about value alignment are not just um value alignment are not just um value alignment are not just um technical. Uh, they're also uh technical. Uh, they're also uh technical. Uh, they're also uh philosophical or at least partly philosophical or at least partly philosophical or at least partly philosophical. Um, and we're not going philosophical. Um, and we're not going philosophical. Um, and we're not going to solve any deep problems about value to solve any deep problems about value to solve any deep problems about value in the next hour. Uh, we're not going to in the next hour. Uh, we're not going to in the next hour. Uh, we're not going to be able to go very in-depth, in fact, on be able to go very in-depth, in fact, on be able to go very in-depth, in fact, on almost any of this stuff. Uh, if you're almost any of this stuff. Uh, if you're almost any of this stuff. Uh, if you're interested in uh some of the finer interested in uh some of the finer

[2:44] interested in uh some of the finer points, uh, I recommend taking uh, a points, uh, I recommend taking uh, a points, uh, I recommend taking uh, a philosophy course. But just going to try philosophy course. But just going to try philosophy course. But just going to try to give a little bit of a lay of the to give a little bit of a lay of the to give a little bit of a lay of the land here, a sense of the some of the land here, a sense of the some of the land here, a sense of the some of the scope of possibilities when it comes to scope of possibilities when it comes to scope of possibilities when it comes to thinking about thinking about thinking about value and value alignment. So, value and value alignment. So, value and value alignment. So, uh what is value alignment? Um sort of a uh what is value alignment? Um sort of a uh what is value alignment? Um sort of a a term that means uh I think a lot of uh a term that means uh I think a lot of uh a term that means uh I think a lot of uh different things to different people. different things to different people. different things to different people. And that's uh sort of where we're going And that's uh sort of where we're going And that's uh sort of where we're going to start off today. But maybe just for to start off today. But maybe just for to start off today. But maybe just for an illustrative example, uh sort of one

[3:16] an illustrative example, uh sort of one an illustrative example, uh sort of one of the classics in the philosophy of the classics in the philosophy of the classics in the philosophy literature at least, um is uh paperclip literature at least, um is uh paperclip literature at least, um is uh paperclip AI. Uh not not actually Clippy. I don't AI. Uh not not actually Clippy. I don't AI. Uh not not actually Clippy. I don't know if anybody here even knows what know if anybody here even knows what know if anybody here even knows what that is or if I'm just dating myself. Uh that is or if I'm just dating myself. Uh that is or if I'm just dating myself. Uh okay. But uh this is an example due to okay. But uh this is an example due to okay. But uh this is an example due to uh Nick Bostonramm and his book on uh uh Nick Bostonramm and his book on uh uh Nick Bostonramm and his book on uh super intelligent AI and the case goes super intelligent AI and the case goes super intelligent AI and the case goes like this. He says an AI designed to

[3:46] like this. He says an AI designed to like this. He says an AI designed to manage production in a factory is given manage production in a factory is given manage production in a factory is given the final goal of maxi uh maximizing the the final goal of maxi uh maximizing the the final goal of maxi uh maximizing the manufacturer of paper clips. Um I don't manufacturer of paper clips. Um I don't manufacturer of paper clips. Um I don't know if anybody has anybody encountered know if anybody has anybody encountered know if anybody has anybody encountered this example before. Anybody know how it this example before. Anybody know how it this example before. Anybody know how it end? I'm getting I'm getting a nod. end? I'm getting I'm getting a nod. end? I'm getting I'm getting a nod. What's do you you remember where this What's do you you remember where this What's do you you remember where this goes next? Oh yeah. I mean the most goes next? Oh yeah. I mean the most goes next? Oh yeah. I mean the most efficient way to build lots of paper efficient way to build lots of paper efficient way to build lots of paper clips more factories change all the jobs clips more factories change all the jobs clips more factories change all the jobs to be paper clips. Turn rocks into paper to be paper clips. Turn rocks into paper to be paper clips. Turn rocks into paper clips. clips. clips. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Or could be paper clips.

[4:16] &gt;&gt; Or could be paper clips. &gt;&gt; Or could be paper clips. &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. I mean you want to &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. I mean you want to &gt;&gt; Exactly. Yeah. I mean you want to maximize paper clips, right? I mean just maximize paper clips, right? I mean just maximize paper clips, right? I mean just uh so all those things and then just uh so all those things and then just uh so all those things and then just build up from there, right? You know, build up from there, right? You know, build up from there, right? You know, start converting everything around you start converting everything around you start converting everything around you into paper clips. More factories. into paper clips. More factories. into paper clips. More factories. Everything everywhere paperclipip Everything everywhere paperclipip Everything everywhere paperclipip factories. eventually the whole Earth, factories. eventually the whole Earth, factories. eventually the whole Earth, he says, increasingly large chunks of he says, increasingly large chunks of he says, increasingly large chunks of the observable universe. Okay, obviously the observable universe. Okay, obviously the observable universe. Okay, obviously this is uh probably a bit hyperbolic. Uh this is uh probably a bit hyperbolic. Uh this is uh probably a bit hyperbolic. Uh if you've got an AI system that's got if you've got an AI system that's got if you've got an AI system that's got enough power to to do that, that's uh enough power to to do that, that's uh enough power to to do that, that's uh probably a problem. And Boston is probably a problem. And Boston is

[4:46] probably a problem. And Boston is focused on super intelligent AI. But uh focused on super intelligent AI. But uh focused on super intelligent AI. But uh you can think I think uh even of ways you can think I think uh even of ways you can think I think uh even of ways that a less powerful AI might pursue uh that a less powerful AI might pursue uh that a less powerful AI might pursue uh even a relatively simple goal like this even a relatively simple goal like this even a relatively simple goal like this in surprising ways, right? So you could in surprising ways, right? So you could in surprising ways, right? So you could imagine even even an AI system that was imagine even even an AI system that was imagine even even an AI system that was just, you know, sort of in charge of the just, you know, sort of in charge of the just, you know, sort of in charge of the factory uh given a goal like that, you factory uh given a goal like that, you factory uh given a goal like that, you know, you could imagine uh locking the know, you could imagine uh locking the know, you could imagine uh locking the doors, you know, locking the workers in doors, you know, locking the workers in doors, you know, locking the workers in the factory so they can't leave, right? the factory so they can't leave, right? the factory so they can't leave, right? Denying system access to the humans who

[5:17] Denying system access to the humans who Denying system access to the humans who might interfere with its processes or might interfere with its processes or might interfere with its processes or end them. Um okay, uh that would be an end them. Um okay, uh that would be an end them. Um okay, uh that would be an example of uh value misalignment. example of uh value misalignment. example of uh value misalignment. uh sort of broadly speaking and talk uh sort of broadly speaking and talk uh sort of broadly speaking and talk about the problem of value alignment. about the problem of value alignment. about the problem of value alignment. We're talking about how do we design AI We're talking about how do we design AI We're talking about how do we design AI agents that will do what we really want. agents that will do what we really want. agents that will do what we really want. Uh right where what we really want is Uh right where what we really want is Uh right where what we really want is often more nuanced than what we say that often more nuanced than what we say that often more nuanced than what we say that we want, right? Uh it often goes beyond

[5:49] we want, right? Uh it often goes beyond we want, right? Uh it often goes beyond uh you know the the simple instructions uh you know the the simple instructions uh you know the the simple instructions that we give, right? We're working with that we give, right? We're working with that we give, right? We're working with a lot of background assumptions a lot of background assumptions a lot of background assumptions uh uh in human language that are uh uh in human language that are uh uh in human language that are sometimes hard to formalize and they're sometimes hard to formalize and they're sometimes hard to formalize and they're easy for us to forget about because we easy for us to forget about because we easy for us to forget about because we don't even we don't even have them in don't even we don't even have them in don't even we don't even have them in view, right? We would never think to say view, right? We would never think to say view, right? We would never think to say maximize paperclip production, you know, maximize paperclip production, you know, maximize paperclip production, you know, but don't lock all the workers in the but don't lock all the workers in the but don't lock all the workers in the factory. We would just take for granted factory. We would just take for granted factory. We would just take for granted that that's not a thing that you would that that's not a thing that you would that that's not a thing that you would do on the way to uh maximizing do on the way to uh maximizing do on the way to uh maximizing production. production. production. Um, okay.

[6:21] Um, okay. Um, okay. And you might think this is just a, you And you might think this is just a, you And you might think this is just a, you know, the problem here is just, you know, the problem here is just, you know, the problem here is just, you know, it's a skill issue. You just know, it's a skill issue. You just know, it's a skill issue. You just didn't give good enough instructions. didn't give good enough instructions. didn't give good enough instructions. Uh, but I think it can be hard to solve Uh, but I think it can be hard to solve Uh, but I think it can be hard to solve this problem just by giving better this problem just by giving better this problem just by giving better instructions. Uh, I mean, is I don't instructions. Uh, I mean, is I don't instructions. Uh, I mean, is I don't know if anybody wants to give a try. know if anybody wants to give a try. know if anybody wants to give a try. Anybody have an idea of what what better Anybody have an idea of what what better Anybody have an idea of what what better instruction you might have given to to instruction you might have given to to instruction you might have given to to the paperclip AI to avoid, the paperclip AI to avoid, the paperclip AI to avoid, you know, disaster? you know, disaster? you know, disaster? I guess the smart alic answer is like I guess the smart alic answer is like I guess the smart alic answer is like make a bounded number of paper clips.

[6:52] make a bounded number of paper clips. make a bounded number of paper clips. &gt;&gt; Good. Yes. So, right. I mean, uh, yeah, &gt;&gt; Good. Yes. So, right. I mean, uh, yeah, &gt;&gt; Good. Yes. So, right. I mean, uh, yeah, maximize paperclip production, right? I maximize paperclip production, right? I maximize paperclip production, right? I mean, a big big problem with that goal mean, a big big problem with that goal mean, a big big problem with that goal is that it's, uh, it's open-ended, is that it's, uh, it's open-ended, is that it's, uh, it's open-ended, right? Uh, yeah, if you, you know, this right? Uh, yeah, if you, you know, this right? Uh, yeah, if you, you know, this is how many paper clips I need, you is how many paper clips I need, you is how many paper clips I need, you know, give a reasonable number, that's know, give a reasonable number, that's know, give a reasonable number, that's certainly going to, you would think it certainly going to, you would think it certainly going to, you would think it was going to stop the, you know, was going to stop the, you know, was going to stop the, you know, converting the whole earth into paper converting the whole earth into paper converting the whole earth into paper clips, uh, approach. Although it's clips, uh, approach. Although it's clips, uh, approach. Although it's interesting. I mean this is uh you know interesting. I mean this is uh you know interesting. I mean this is uh you know I don't want to get too stuck in this I don't want to get too stuck in this I don't want to get too stuck in this one example but uh um yeah Boston thinks one example but uh um yeah Boston thinks one example but uh um yeah Boston thinks about this and he he worries that you

[7:23] about this and he he worries that you about this and he he worries that you know the uh an AI that sort of only has know the uh an AI that sort of only has know the uh an AI that sort of only has this one goal focus on paper clips is this one goal focus on paper clips is this one goal focus on paper clips is going to get to going to get to going to get to uh you know it might get to that number uh you know it might get to that number uh you know it might get to that number and think oh well but you know maybe I and think oh well but you know maybe I and think oh well but you know maybe I miscounted maybe I'm not sure I got miscounted maybe I'm not sure I got miscounted maybe I'm not sure I got nothing else to do you know. Um okay but nothing else to do you know. Um okay but nothing else to do you know. Um okay but you could you know you could say exactly you could you know you could say exactly you could you know you could say exactly a million paper clips or something. Um, a million paper clips or something. Um, a million paper clips or something. Um, right. But that's not going to be uh so right. But that's not going to be uh so right. But that's not going to be uh so that that'll solve the, you know, that that'll solve the, you know, that that'll solve the, you know, runaway AI destroys the universe by runaway AI destroys the universe by runaway AI destroys the universe by turning it into paper clips. Uh, that

[7:53] turning it into paper clips. Uh, that turning it into paper clips. Uh, that might not solve, you know, uh, AI, you might not solve, you know, uh, AI, you might not solve, you know, uh, AI, you know, locks the workers in the factory know, locks the workers in the factory know, locks the workers in the factory or takes the plumbing out of the walls or takes the plumbing out of the walls or takes the plumbing out of the walls to for raw materials for paper clips, to for raw materials for paper clips, to for raw materials for paper clips, right? So, uh, you know, yeah, I think I right? So, uh, you know, yeah, I think I right? So, uh, you know, yeah, I think I mean, put it this way, once you have on mean, put it this way, once you have on mean, put it this way, once you have on the table a particular failure case, it the table a particular failure case, it the table a particular failure case, it might be easy to to see, okay, here's might be easy to to see, okay, here's might be easy to to see, okay, here's maybe here's what I should have said to maybe here's what I should have said to maybe here's what I should have said to cover that case, right? Part of the cover that case, right? Part of the cover that case, right? Part of the difficulties that uh is getting a a view difficulties that uh is getting a a view difficulties that uh is getting a a view of all of the possible failure cases in

[8:23] of all of the possible failure cases in of all of the possible failure cases in advance, right? But yeah, that's a advance, right? But yeah, that's a advance, right? But yeah, that's a that's a good suggestion. Thank you. Um, that's a good suggestion. Thank you. Um, that's a good suggestion. Thank you. Um, okay. Uh yeah and I mean this is I mean okay. Uh yeah and I mean this is I mean okay. Uh yeah and I mean this is I mean broadly speaking this is just the same broadly speaking this is just the same broadly speaking this is just the same difficulty that comes with manually difficulty that comes with manually difficulty that comes with manually specifying a reward function right when specifying a reward function right when specifying a reward function right when you get to a sufficiently complicated you get to a sufficiently complicated you get to a sufficiently complicated task. This can be uh yeah difficult to task. This can be uh yeah difficult to task. This can be uh yeah difficult to do you realize that you need to specify do you realize that you need to specify do you realize that you need to specify rewards for lots of things that weren't rewards for lots of things that weren't rewards for lots of things that weren't even on your mind because you know the even on your mind because you know the even on your mind because you know the AI comes up with ways of solving the

[8:53] AI comes up with ways of solving the AI comes up with ways of solving the problem you never would have expected. problem you never would have expected. problem you never would have expected. Um, okay. And of course, this is even Um, okay. And of course, this is even Um, okay. And of course, this is even worse, right? This problem uh for AI worse, right? This problem uh for AI worse, right? This problem uh for AI that takes instruction from non-expert that takes instruction from non-expert that takes instruction from non-expert users, right? So, it' be it's one thing users, right? So, it' be it's one thing users, right? So, it' be it's one thing if you are sort of the uh you as the if you are sort of the uh you as the if you are sort of the uh you as the computer science scientists are the one computer science scientists are the one computer science scientists are the one giving the instructions, right? And giving the instructions, right? And giving the instructions, right? And you've got a sense of how this thing you've got a sense of how this thing you've got a sense of how this thing works, a sense of what it does and works, a sense of what it does and works, a sense of what it does and doesn't know. Uh you know, you're in a doesn't know. Uh you know, you're in a doesn't know. Uh you know, you're in a relatively good position to uh you know, relatively good position to uh you know, relatively good position to uh you know, be able to give clear instructions that be able to give clear instructions that be able to give clear instructions that cover all the cases that you're worried

[9:24] cover all the cases that you're worried cover all the cases that you're worried about. But you know if you're you're about. But you know if you're you're about. But you know if you're you're designing a system for use by just designing a system for use by just designing a system for use by just anybody who doesn't know how it works um anybody who doesn't know how it works um anybody who doesn't know how it works um could be even easier uh even more could be even easier uh even more could be even easier uh even more difficult to foresee difficult to foresee difficult to foresee uh these problems and give good uh these problems and give good uh these problems and give good instructions. instructions. instructions. Okay. Uh so yeah like I said broadly the Okay. Uh so yeah like I said broadly the Okay. Uh so yeah like I said broadly the right the problem is getting AI to do right the problem is getting AI to do right the problem is getting AI to do what we really want it to do. Okay. But what we really want it to do. Okay. But what we really want it to do. Okay. But that's pretty squishy. What exactly does that's pretty squishy. What exactly does that's pretty squishy. What exactly does that mean? Um that mean? Um that mean? Um I mean there are a lot of different

[9:55] I mean there are a lot of different I mean there are a lot of different things that it could mean and I think things that it could mean and I think things that it could mean and I think how you uh think about that is going to how you uh think about that is going to how you uh think about that is going to affect your approach uh to value affect your approach uh to value affect your approach uh to value alignment um you know philosophically alignment um you know philosophically alignment um you know philosophically but also technically. but also technically. but also technically. Um right so uh one way you might think Um right so uh one way you might think Um right so uh one way you might think about it is the value alignment is the about it is the value alignment is the about it is the value alignment is the problem of designing AI agents uh that problem of designing AI agents uh that problem of designing AI agents uh that do what we really intend for them to do. do what we really intend for them to do. do what we really intend for them to do. Right? Uh the problem here was that I Right? Uh the problem here was that I Right? Uh the problem here was that I gave an instruction that didn't really gave an instruction that didn't really gave an instruction that didn't really include my whole intention. Right? There include my whole intention. Right? There include my whole intention. Right? There are things I intended for the uh AI to

[10:27] are things I intended for the uh AI to are things I intended for the uh AI to do and not do that, uh weren't sort of do and not do that, uh weren't sort of do and not do that, uh weren't sort of explicitly communicated, right? Right? explicitly communicated, right? Right? explicitly communicated, right? Right? If you're if that's the way that you If you're if that's the way that you If you're if that's the way that you think about the problem, uh then you think about the problem, uh then you think about the problem, uh then you know the problem in this paperclip AI know the problem in this paperclip AI know the problem in this paperclip AI case is that you know it failed to case is that you know it failed to case is that you know it failed to derive my true intention right which was derive my true intention right which was derive my true intention right which was something like maximize production something like maximize production something like maximize production subject to you know certain constraints subject to you know certain constraints subject to you know certain constraints which you in theory could flush out uh which you in theory could flush out uh which you in theory could flush out uh failed to drive that intention from my failed to drive that intention from my failed to drive that intention from my instruction which was just to maximize instruction which was just to maximize instruction which was just to maximize production.

[10:57] production. production. Um, Um, Um, okay. Uh, okay. Uh, okay. Uh, right. So, if if that's the problem, right. So, if if that's the problem, right. So, if if that's the problem, you'd think the solution then would be you'd think the solution then would be you'd think the solution then would be to design AI systems that are able to do to design AI systems that are able to do to design AI systems that are able to do this kind of translation successfully, this kind of translation successfully, this kind of translation successfully, right? They're able to take in under right? They're able to take in under right? They're able to take in under specified instructions specified instructions specified instructions uh and fill out on their own sort of all uh and fill out on their own sort of all uh and fill out on their own sort of all of the background conditions that I have of the background conditions that I have of the background conditions that I have in mind and that if I were talking to in mind and that if I were talking to in mind and that if I were talking to another person, they would sort of know another person, they would sort of know another person, they would sort of know that I had in mind. Uh, right. So when I that I had in mind. Uh, right. So when I that I had in mind. Uh, right. So when I say maximize paperclip production, the

[11:28] say maximize paperclip production, the say maximize paperclip production, the AI knows correctly interprets that as AI knows correctly interprets that as AI knows correctly interprets that as okay do that without you know just okay do that without you know just okay do that without you know just within the contines confines of the within the contines confines of the within the contines confines of the factory you know using normal materials factory you know using normal materials factory you know using normal materials not you know killing or enslaving the not you know killing or enslaving the not you know killing or enslaving the workers and so on and so on right um workers and so on and so on right um workers and so on and so on right um uh yeah this is this is AI researcher uh yeah this is this is AI researcher uh yeah this is this is AI researcher Jason Gabriel talking about this problem Jason Gabriel talking about this problem Jason Gabriel talking about this problem back in 2020 says um you know this is a back in 2020 says um you know this is a back in 2020 says um you know this is a significant challenge right to really significant challenge right to really significant challenge right to really grab That's the intention behind grab That's the intention behind grab That's the intention behind instructions. AI may require a complete

[11:59] instructions. AI may require a complete instructions. AI may require a complete model of human language and interaction, model of human language and interaction, model of human language and interaction, right? Including an understanding of the right? Including an understanding of the right? Including an understanding of the culture, institutions, and practices culture, institutions, and practices culture, institutions, and practices that allow people to understand the that allow people to understand the that allow people to understand the implied meaning of terms, right? What implied meaning of terms, right? What implied meaning of terms, right? What what is and is not implied in what I what is and is not implied in what I what is and is not implied in what I say, you know, depends a whole lot on say, you know, depends a whole lot on say, you know, depends a whole lot on our practices and our culture. And uh our practices and our culture. And uh our practices and our culture. And uh yeah, so to derive this kind of thing yeah, so to derive this kind of thing yeah, so to derive this kind of thing for my instructions is going to require for my instructions is going to require for my instructions is going to require this sort of uh yeah, as as Gabriel this sort of uh yeah, as as Gabriel this sort of uh yeah, as as Gabriel says, complete model of human language. says, complete model of human language. says, complete model of human language. Um I mean, you might you might wonder,

[12:31] Um I mean, you might you might wonder, Um I mean, you might you might wonder, you know, about how well this quote has you know, about how well this quote has you know, about how well this quote has aged in the last four years. I don't aged in the last four years. I don't aged in the last four years. I don't know. Does anybody know. Does anybody know. Does anybody anybody have thoughts about I mean, I'm anybody have thoughts about I mean, I'm anybody have thoughts about I mean, I'm I'm I'm clearly just fishing for the I'm I'm clearly just fishing for the I'm I'm clearly just fishing for the thing that I'm going to say anyway, but thing that I'm going to say anyway, but thing that I'm going to say anyway, but I'm I'm curious if Can it be like broken I'm I'm curious if Can it be like broken I'm I'm curious if Can it be like broken down where you saying maximize down where you saying maximize down where you saying maximize production but that agent is having like production but that agent is having like production but that agent is having like a fleet of agents where the problem is a fleet of agents where the problem is a fleet of agents where the problem is broken down uh into like okay designing broken down uh into like okay designing broken down uh into like okay designing optimal machinery uh like have the best optimal machinery uh like have the best optimal machinery uh like have the best like resources how much resources can we

[13:03] like resources how much resources can we like resources how much resources can we get u and like what is the like just bro get u and like what is the like just bro get u and like what is the like just bro breaking down the problem and uh breaking down the problem and uh breaking down the problem and uh attempting to solve each sub problem for attempting to solve each sub problem for attempting to solve each sub problem for maximizing the whole maximizing the whole maximizing the whole &gt;&gt; good yeah and I think uh so Yeah, I &gt;&gt; good yeah and I think uh so Yeah, I &gt;&gt; good yeah and I think uh so Yeah, I think you're absolutely right that think you're absolutely right that think you're absolutely right that that's something that uh you would want that's something that uh you would want that's something that uh you would want uh you might potentially want in your uh you might potentially want in your uh you might potentially want in your design of an AI system, you know, to design of an AI system, you know, to design of an AI system, you know, to carry out really complex tasks, right? carry out really complex tasks, right? carry out really complex tasks, right? Although Although Although uh uh uh you know, I'm not uh the problem here in

[13:33] you know, I'm not uh the problem here in you know, I'm not uh the problem here in some sense is not breaking down this some sense is not breaking down this some sense is not breaking down this problem into it uh this you know request problem into it uh this you know request problem into it uh this you know request into its subp parts. The problem here is into its subp parts. The problem here is into its subp parts. The problem here is uh you know in in a in a sense it's kind uh you know in in a in a sense it's kind uh you know in in a in a sense it's kind of going the opposite direction. I'm of going the opposite direction. I'm of going the opposite direction. I'm giving this really minimal specification giving this really minimal specification giving this really minimal specification and it needs to figure out what are all and it needs to figure out what are all and it needs to figure out what are all of the sort of constraints and of the sort of constraints and of the sort of constraints and everything that's being implied in that everything that's being implied in that everything that's being implied in that instruction. Um you know that's instruction. Um you know that's instruction. Um you know that's something that's going to need to be something that's going to need to be something that's going to need to be understood sort of by the top level understood sort of by the top level understood sort of by the top level system. So breaking I mean I suppose you system. So breaking I mean I suppose you system. So breaking I mean I suppose you could imagine breaking out the process

[14:03] could imagine breaking out the process could imagine breaking out the process of doing that translation but it's less of doing that translation but it's less of doing that translation but it's less about breaking the problem down into about breaking the problem down into about breaking the problem down into steps and more about how is the system steps and more about how is the system steps and more about how is the system even determining what is the problem even determining what is the problem even determining what is the problem that I want it to solve right the worry that I want it to solve right the worry that I want it to solve right the worry in this case is that maximize paperclip in this case is that maximize paperclip in this case is that maximize paperclip production end of story is not actually production end of story is not actually production end of story is not actually that's not really the problem that I that's not really the problem that I that's not really the problem that I want it to solve right um well I don't want it to solve right um well I don't want it to solve right um well I don't know I mean this is you know I'm just a know I mean this is you know I'm just a know I mean this is you know I'm just a uh I'm no AI expert I mean you might you uh I'm no AI expert I mean you might you uh I'm no AI expert I mean you might you I wonder whether this is a task that an I wonder whether this is a task that an I wonder whether this is a task that an LLM could assist in. I mean, you know,

[14:33] LLM could assist in. I mean, you know, LLM could assist in. I mean, you know, thinking about AI may require a complete thinking about AI may require a complete thinking about AI may require a complete model of human language. I don't know. model of human language. I don't know. model of human language. I don't know. You know, depending on how rosy a view You know, depending on how rosy a view You know, depending on how rosy a view you have of recent AI developments, you you have of recent AI developments, you you have of recent AI developments, you might think that's uh something that might think that's uh something that might think that's uh something that we're already close to. Uh yeah, I mean, we're already close to. Uh yeah, I mean, we're already close to. Uh yeah, I mean, you might you might worry about how well you might you might worry about how well you might you might worry about how well we could we could we could test that kind of understanding, but um test that kind of understanding, but um test that kind of understanding, but um okay. okay. okay. Uh Uh Uh so there there's that's you know the so there there's that's you know the so there there's that's you know the technical problem but uh there's also a

[15:03] technical problem but uh there's also a technical problem but uh there's also a philosophical problem here which is that philosophical problem here which is that philosophical problem here which is that our intentions uh you might think don't our intentions uh you might think don't our intentions uh you might think don't always track what it is we really want always track what it is we really want always track what it is we really want uh in the relevant sense. So classic uh in the relevant sense. So classic uh in the relevant sense. So classic cases of this might be uh where I have cases of this might be uh where I have cases of this might be uh where I have incomplete information, right? Or I'm incomplete information, right? Or I'm incomplete information, right? Or I'm not sort of being perfectly rational, not sort of being perfectly rational, not sort of being perfectly rational, right? I mean, you might imagine that uh right? I mean, you might imagine that uh right? I mean, you might imagine that uh you know, the reason that I want the AI you know, the reason that I want the AI you know, the reason that I want the AI to maximize paperclip production, it's to maximize paperclip production, it's to maximize paperclip production, it's not just for the love of paper clips, not just for the love of paper clips, not just for the love of paper clips, right? It's because I'm I'm in the right? It's because I'm I'm in the right? It's because I'm I'm in the paperclip business and I want to, you

[15:33] paperclip business and I want to, you paperclip business and I want to, you know, uh make as much money as I can, know, uh make as much money as I can, know, uh make as much money as I can, right? Uh okay. Well, if that's if right? Uh okay. Well, if that's if right? Uh okay. Well, if that's if that's the case and the AI knows that I that's the case and the AI knows that I that's the case and the AI knows that I would get more money out of doing, you would get more money out of doing, you would get more money out of doing, you know, pivoting into something else, know, pivoting into something else, know, pivoting into something else, don't do paper clips, do staples, right? don't do paper clips, do staples, right? don't do paper clips, do staples, right? Uh has Yeah, you might you might wonder, Uh has Yeah, you might you might wonder, Uh has Yeah, you might you might wonder, has it given me what I really want if it has it given me what I really want if it has it given me what I really want if it does what I intended for it to do, which does what I intended for it to do, which does what I intended for it to do, which was to maximize paperclip production, was to maximize paperclip production, was to maximize paperclip production, right? I mean, in one sense, yes. Uh but right? I mean, in one sense, yes. Uh but right? I mean, in one sense, yes. Uh but in another sense, no. And you might in another sense, no. And you might in another sense, no. And you might think that sense is uh is the more

[16:04] think that sense is uh is the more think that sense is uh is the more important one, right? I want ultimately important one, right? I want ultimately important one, right? I want ultimately what I want to get is what I prefer as a what I want to get is what I prefer as a what I want to get is what I prefer as a result. Uh you know what I would intend result. Uh you know what I would intend result. Uh you know what I would intend if I had sort of all the information and if I had sort of all the information and if I had sort of all the information and I was thinking perfectly about it. Um I was thinking perfectly about it. Um I was thinking perfectly about it. Um okay so this is sort of a second okay so this is sort of a second okay so this is sort of a second interpretation maybe of what we really interpretation maybe of what we really interpretation maybe of what we really want. Right? We want the the agent uh want. Right? We want the the agent uh want. Right? We want the the agent uh the agent is value line if it does what the agent is value line if it does what the agent is value line if it does what the user prefers to have done. Right? Um the user prefers to have done. Right? Um the user prefers to have done. Right? Um and

[16:34] and and uh yeah where this can come apart from uh yeah where this can come apart from uh yeah where this can come apart from what user intends right on this what user intends right on this what user intends right on this interpretation paperclipip AI is interpretation paperclipip AI is interpretation paperclipip AI is misaligned because you know I prefer it misaligned because you know I prefer it misaligned because you know I prefer it not you know destroy the plumbing or not you know destroy the plumbing or not you know destroy the plumbing or destroy the uh you know entire world in destroy the uh you know entire world in destroy the uh you know entire world in the process of making paper clips. the process of making paper clips. the process of making paper clips. Um and here broadly the problem is uh Um and here broadly the problem is uh Um and here broadly the problem is uh you know how to get the agent to derive you know how to get the agent to derive you know how to get the agent to derive what the user prefers when that differs what the user prefers when that differs what the user prefers when that differs from the intention that the user has from the intention that the user has from the intention that the user has expressed

[17:05] expressed expressed um right where the solution um right where the solution um right where the solution uh generally is to try to infer user uh generally is to try to infer user uh generally is to try to infer user preferences from behavior or feedback. preferences from behavior or feedback. preferences from behavior or feedback. Uh I take it that's sort of the Uh I take it that's sort of the Uh I take it that's sort of the motivating insight of machine learning motivating insight of machine learning motivating insight of machine learning from human preferences uh or human from human preferences uh or human from human preferences uh or human feedback in the first place. Um okay so feedback in the first place. Um okay so feedback in the first place. Um okay so given that I mean I don't think I given that I mean I don't think I given that I mean I don't think I probably need to probably need to probably need to dwell too long on uh you know the dwell too long on uh you know the dwell too long on uh you know the technical challenges that uh you technical challenges that uh you technical challenges that uh you probably spent uh most of the class

[17:36] probably spent uh most of the class probably spent uh most of the class thinking about these and many more. Um I thinking about these and many more. Um I thinking about these and many more. Um I think uh you know this this last one think uh you know this this last one think uh you know this this last one though I think is you know is maybe though I think is you know is maybe though I think is you know is maybe worth worth worth uh emphasizing well following on the uh emphasizing well following on the uh emphasizing well following on the second one right I mean you're you're uh second one right I mean you're you're uh second one right I mean you're you're uh observing finite behavior getting finite observing finite behavior getting finite observing finite behavior getting finite amount of feedback on sort of a finite amount of feedback on sort of a finite amount of feedback on sort of a finite amount of cases so you you're having to amount of cases so you you're having to amount of cases so you you're having to extrapolate from that there are extrapolate from that there are extrapolate from that there are obviously better and worse ways of doing obviously better and worse ways of doing obviously better and worse ways of doing that but uh you know there are sort of

[18:06] that but uh you know there are sort of that but uh you know there are sort of infinitely many preference of reward infinitely many preference of reward infinitely many preference of reward functions that are consistent with what functions that are consistent with what functions that are consistent with what you've already observed, right? And you you've already observed, right? And you you've already observed, right? And you might, you know, this is where you might might, you know, this is where you might might, you know, this is where you might extrapolate extrapolate extrapolate uh wrongly. Uh and if you're observing, uh wrongly. Uh and if you're observing, uh wrongly. Uh and if you're observing, you know, human behavior, getting you know, human behavior, getting you know, human behavior, getting feedback from humans, right? You're feedback from humans, right? You're feedback from humans, right? You're mostly observing situations that occur mostly observing situations that occur mostly observing situations that occur normally, right? Uh you might not get a normally, right? Uh you might not get a normally, right? Uh you might not get a lot of data about what are you supposed lot of data about what are you supposed lot of data about what are you supposed to do in unusual circumstances, uh in, to do in unusual circumstances, uh in, to do in unusual circumstances, uh in, you know, cases of emergency. you know, cases of emergency. you know, cases of emergency. Um but you might think those are you

[18:37] Um but you might think those are you Um but you might think those are you know emergency cases or maybe some of know emergency cases or maybe some of know emergency cases or maybe some of the most important cases where it's uh the most important cases where it's uh the most important cases where it's uh most important for AI to be aligned with most important for AI to be aligned with most important for AI to be aligned with human values human values human values right okay so th those are some of the right okay so th those are some of the right okay so th those are some of the technical challenges you face but here technical challenges you face but here technical challenges you face but here again is a philosophical problem which again is a philosophical problem which again is a philosophical problem which is that uh just as my intentions can is that uh just as my intentions can is that uh just as my intentions can diverge from my preferences well my diverge from my preferences well my diverge from my preferences well my preferences can diverge from what is you preferences can diverge from what is you preferences can diverge from what is you know actually good for me uh in in an know actually good for me uh in in an know actually good for me uh in in an objective sense Right? So, you might objective sense Right? So, you might objective sense Right? So, you might think uh a lot of people prefer uh to

[19:09] think uh a lot of people prefer uh to think uh a lot of people prefer uh to smoke, right? But you might think it's smoke, right? But you might think it's smoke, right? But you might think it's that's not really good for them, right? that's not really good for them, right? that's not really good for them, right? I might prefer to maximize profit on my I might prefer to maximize profit on my I might prefer to maximize profit on my paperclip factory at all costs. Uh but paperclip factory at all costs. Uh but paperclip factory at all costs. Uh but maybe it would be better for me to be, maybe it would be better for me to be, maybe it would be better for me to be, you know, less focused on money and you know, less focused on money and you know, less focused on money and spend more time with my family, right? I spend more time with my family, right? I spend more time with my family, right? I prefer one thing, but that might not prefer one thing, but that might not prefer one thing, but that might not track what is uh sort of good for me uh track what is uh sort of good for me uh track what is uh sort of good for me uh in a more objective sense. So this is in a more objective sense. So this is in a more objective sense. So this is sort of yet again a different sort of yet again a different sort of yet again a different interpretation of what what we might

[19:39] interpretation of what what we might interpretation of what what we might mean when we say that the problem is mean when we say that the problem is mean when we say that the problem is getting AI to do what we really want. Um getting AI to do what we really want. Um getting AI to do what we really want. Um you might think that you know value you might think that you know value you might think that you know value alignment is the problem of getting AI alignment is the problem of getting AI alignment is the problem of getting AI to do what's in the user's best to do what's in the user's best to do what's in the user's best interest. Right? Paperclip AI is interest. Right? Paperclip AI is interest. Right? Paperclip AI is misaligned because it's objectively bad misaligned because it's objectively bad misaligned because it's objectively bad for me for the world to be destroyed or for me for the world to be destroyed or for me for the world to be destroyed or for it to do all these other things um for it to do all these other things um for it to do all these other things um that it's doing. that it's doing. that it's doing. uh and uh and uh and uh yeah here there is a sort of I guess

[20:09] uh yeah here there is a sort of I guess uh yeah here there is a sort of I guess combined technical and philosophical combined technical and philosophical combined technical and philosophical problem which is you know unlike problem which is you know unlike problem which is you know unlike figuring out the intended meaning of my figuring out the intended meaning of my figuring out the intended meaning of my instructions or learning about my instructions or learning about my instructions or learning about my revealed preferences. revealed preferences. revealed preferences. Uh it's not an entirely empirical Uh it's not an entirely empirical Uh it's not an entirely empirical question what's in my objective best question what's in my objective best question what's in my objective best interest. This is at least a part you interest. This is at least a part you interest. This is at least a part you know a partly philosophical know a partly philosophical know a partly philosophical question. So we can't just, you know, if question. So we can't just, you know, if question. So we can't just, you know, if you if you were trying to align AI in you if you were trying to align AI in you if you were trying to align AI in this way, you couldn't just figure out this way, you couldn't just figure out this way, you couldn't just figure out what you what your goal was sort of just what you what your goal was sort of just what you what your goal was sort of just by observing human behavior or just by by observing human behavior or just by by observing human behavior or just by getting feedback uh from people. Um

[20:50] so there's some bad news here. The bad so there's some bad news here. The bad news, uh is that uh philosophers news, uh is that uh philosophers news, uh is that uh philosophers disagree about what is objectively good disagree about what is objectively good disagree about what is objectively good for a person. I think not just for a person. I think not just for a person. I think not just philosophers but other folks as well, philosophers but other folks as well, philosophers but other folks as well, right? Uh some people think that it's right? Uh some people think that it's right? Uh some people think that it's just you know the person's own happiness just you know the person's own happiness just you know the person's own happiness uh pleasure. uh pleasure. uh pleasure. Some people think it's the satisfaction Some people think it's the satisfaction Some people think it's the satisfaction of somebody's desires or preferences. of somebody's desires or preferences. of somebody's desires or preferences. This can come apart from happiness. Some This can come apart from happiness. Some This can come apart from happiness. Some people think that things like health or people think that things like health or people think that things like health or safety or knowledge uh all these things

[21:21] safety or knowledge uh all these things safety or knowledge uh all these things are objectively good for us even if we are objectively good for us even if we are objectively good for us even if we don't enjoy them or prefer them right don't enjoy them or prefer them right don't enjoy them or prefer them right even if I you know have a personal uh even if I you know have a personal uh even if I you know have a personal uh you know live fast die young approach to you know live fast die young approach to you know live fast die young approach to life uh that's how I prefer to do things life uh that's how I prefer to do things life uh that's how I prefer to do things you know but maybe maybe even so health you know but maybe maybe even so health you know but maybe maybe even so health and safety would you know would actually and safety would you know would actually and safety would you know would actually uh be good for me even if I don't uh uh be good for me even if I don't uh uh be good for me even if I don't uh prefer them myself. prefer them myself. prefer them myself. Um, okay. So, that's the bad news. The Um, okay. So, that's the bad news. The Um, okay. So, that's the bad news. The good news, uh, is that, uh,

[21:56] well, the really bad news is that there well, the really bad news is that there we go. All right. Uh, the So, my slides we go. All right. Uh, the So, my slides we go. All right. Uh, the So, my slides aren't working. The good news is that aren't working. The good news is that aren't working. The good news is that there's a lot of agreement. Um, there's a lot of agreement. Um, there's a lot of agreement. Um, right. Right? I mean, uh, all these right. Right? I mean, uh, all these right. Right? I mean, uh, all these things on this list at the end, health, things on this list at the end, health, things on this list at the end, health, safety, you know, liberty, knowledge, safety, you know, liberty, knowledge, safety, you know, liberty, knowledge, relationships, relationships, relationships, dignity, all these things, almost dignity, all these things, almost dignity, all these things, almost everybody agrees that these things are everybody agrees that these things are everybody agrees that these things are at least usually good for the person who at least usually good for the person who at least usually good for the person who has them, right? Uh, it's there's a sort has them, right? Uh, it's there's a sort has them, right? Uh, it's there's a sort of philosophical question whether of philosophical question whether of philosophical question whether they're only good because, uh, you know, they're only good because, uh, you know, they're only good because, uh, you know, they generally lead to something more

[22:26] they generally lead to something more they generally lead to something more fundamental like happiness. uh but fundamental like happiness. uh but fundamental like happiness. uh but uh there's sort of a lot of agreement on uh there's sort of a lot of agreement on uh there's sort of a lot of agreement on the things in this list even if the sort the things in this list even if the sort the things in this list even if the sort of underpinnings of that are uh are in of underpinnings of that are uh are in of underpinnings of that are uh are in dispute. dispute. dispute. So you might think you know we don't So you might think you know we don't So you might think you know we don't need to we don't need to resolve all the need to we don't need to resolve all the need to we don't need to resolve all the philosophical questions here. We have a philosophical questions here. We have a philosophical questions here. We have a gen general sense of you know what's in gen general sense of you know what's in gen general sense of you know what's in people's interests. people's interests. people's interests. Um Um Um okay, okay, okay, one complication uh here is that uh one one complication uh here is that uh one one complication uh here is that uh one thing that is widely thought to be good

[22:58] thing that is widely thought to be good thing that is widely thought to be good uh for a person is autonomy. Right? This uh for a person is autonomy. Right? This uh for a person is autonomy. Right? This is something like the ability to choose is something like the ability to choose is something like the ability to choose for yourself how to lead your own life. for yourself how to lead your own life. for yourself how to lead your own life. Right? Even if maybe you don't make the Right? Even if maybe you don't make the Right? Even if maybe you don't make the best choice. Um, right. We want to best choice. Um, right. We want to best choice. Um, right. We want to avoid, you know, paternalism, uh, you avoid, you know, paternalism, uh, you avoid, you know, paternalism, uh, you might call it, choosing what you think might call it, choosing what you think might call it, choosing what you think is best for someone rather than letting is best for someone rather than letting is best for someone rather than letting them decide for themselves. them decide for themselves. them decide for themselves. Um, so even if the goal is to align to Um, so even if the goal is to align to Um, so even if the goal is to align to users best interests, right? Uh, the users best interests, right? Uh, the users best interests, right? Uh, the fact that one of those interests is an fact that one of those interests is an fact that one of those interests is an interest in autonomy might give us

[23:28] interest in autonomy might give us interest in autonomy might give us reason to consider the person's own reason to consider the person's own reason to consider the person's own intentions or preferences anyway, right? intentions or preferences anyway, right? intentions or preferences anyway, right? Even when those conflict with their Even when those conflict with their Even when those conflict with their other interests. other interests. other interests. Okay. Um any any questions maybe about Okay. Um any any questions maybe about Okay. Um any any questions maybe about any of this so far? Uh stuff on best any of this so far? Uh stuff on best any of this so far? Uh stuff on best interest. distinction between interest. distinction between interest. distinction between &gt;&gt; well this really makes it seem like &gt;&gt; well this really makes it seem like &gt;&gt; well this really makes it seem like recursive or something because like I recursive or something because like I recursive or something because like I mean if you if you construct an argument mean if you if you construct an argument mean if you if you construct an argument convincing us of the of the layout of

[23:58] convincing us of the of the layout of convincing us of the of the layout of different value alignment options like different value alignment options like different value alignment options like you are telling us what you think is you are telling us what you think is you are telling us what you think is like like like the layout at least of things that are the layout at least of things that are the layout at least of things that are reasonable to try and then like we have reasonable to try and then like we have reasonable to try and then like we have to operate within that frame when we to operate within that frame when we to operate within that frame when we operationalize or something, right? So, operationalize or something, right? So, operationalize or something, right? So, like isn't it just everything's like isn't it just everything's like isn't it just everything's paternalistic and paternalistic and paternalistic and &gt;&gt; um &gt;&gt; um &gt;&gt; um good. Um

[24:31] that's interesting. I guess I was that's interesting. I guess I was thinking not necessarily. So I mean thinking not necessarily. So I mean thinking not necessarily. So I mean suppose suppose that you think the real suppose suppose that you think the real suppose suppose that you think the real sort of problem of value alignment is sort of problem of value alignment is sort of problem of value alignment is uh how to get AI agents to uh you know uh how to get AI agents to uh you know uh how to get AI agents to uh you know do what we really prefer let's say or to do what we really prefer let's say or to do what we really prefer let's say or to do what we really intend. Um, I guess do what we really intend. Um, I guess do what we really intend. Um, I guess I'm thinking like on that way of I'm thinking like on that way of I'm thinking like on that way of thinking about the problem, thinking about the problem, thinking about the problem, you know, the whole sort of the whole you know, the whole sort of the whole you know, the whole sort of the whole time the goal is to do whatever it is time the goal is to do whatever it is time the goal is to do whatever it is that the uh that the user sort of wants,

[25:04] that the uh that the user sort of wants, that the uh that the user sort of wants, right? Um, right? Um, right? Um, uh, even if it's not in their objective uh, even if it's not in their objective uh, even if it's not in their objective best interest. So, I guess I was best interest. So, I guess I was best interest. So, I guess I was thinking that thinking that thinking that might avoid the paternalism might avoid the paternalism might avoid the paternalism problem. Maybe I'm not quite seeing why. problem. Maybe I'm not quite seeing why. problem. Maybe I'm not quite seeing why. I mean so yeah you have to have like a I mean so yeah you have to have like a I mean so yeah you have to have like a conception of what is value alignment conception of what is value alignment conception of what is value alignment that you're solving for. Uh that might that you're solving for. Uh that might that you're solving for. Uh that might be a that might be a conception that you be a that might be a conception that you be a that might be a conception that you know some of your users will disagree know some of your users will disagree know some of your users will disagree with right so they might think you know with right so they might think you know with right so they might think you know oh really this this product should be

[25:34] oh really this this product should be oh really this this product should be designed to sort of promote whatever is designed to sort of promote whatever is designed to sort of promote whatever is in my best interest even if I don't know in my best interest even if I don't know in my best interest even if I don't know what it is or even if I don't want it to what it is or even if I don't want it to what it is or even if I don't want it to do that or whatever. Um do that or whatever. Um do that or whatever. Um yeah so you might worry that you know yeah so you might worry that you know yeah so you might worry that you know just in just in adopting that kind of just in just in adopting that kind of just in just in adopting that kind of you know just in rejecting that and you know just in rejecting that and you know just in rejecting that and adopting like a preference kind of adopting like a preference kind of adopting like a preference kind of framework you know is that in some sense framework you know is that in some sense framework you know is that in some sense paternalistic because you are choosing paternalistic because you are choosing paternalistic because you are choosing for the user how you how to think about for the user how you how to think about for the user how you how to think about the problem of value alignment was that the problem of value alignment was that the problem of value alignment was that maybe more of maybe more of maybe more of &gt;&gt; what you were worried about yeah &gt;&gt; what you were worried about yeah &gt;&gt; what you were worried about yeah &gt;&gt; like for instance like this difference &gt;&gt; like for instance like this difference &gt;&gt; like for instance like this difference between intention and preference like I

[26:05] between intention and preference like I between intention and preference like I mean I think I did it but like I mean in mean I think I did it but like I mean in mean I think I did it but like I mean in practice right like whether or not I practice right like whether or not I practice right like whether or not I identify with my intention or stated identify with my intention or stated identify with my intention or stated preference or revealed preference and preference or revealed preference and preference or revealed preference and then like we have like my best interest. then like we have like my best interest. then like we have like my best interest. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Right. &gt;&gt; Right. Like um &gt;&gt; Right. Like um &gt;&gt; Right. Like um it's like uh you know you don't exactly it's like uh you know you don't exactly it's like uh you know you don't exactly have the words to communicate how I have the words to communicate how I have the words to communicate how I actually make decisions. So then like actually make decisions. So then like actually make decisions. So then like anything I can actually say has to come anything I can actually say has to come anything I can actually say has to come from like acceptable concepts that other

[26:35] from like acceptable concepts that other from like acceptable concepts that other people would understand or something. people would understand or something. people would understand or something. Does that make sense? Because like like Does that make sense? Because like like Does that make sense? Because like like maybe maybe like I have my own way of maybe maybe like I have my own way of maybe maybe like I have my own way of thinking about thinking about thinking about you know like I'm I have autonomy so you know like I'm I have autonomy so you know like I'm I have autonomy so like I I like I I like I I &gt;&gt; sure Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You have &gt;&gt; sure Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You have &gt;&gt; sure Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. You have your own preferences. Yeah. Yeah. You your own preferences. Yeah. Yeah. You your own preferences. Yeah. Yeah. You want to make your own choices want to make your own choices want to make your own choices &gt;&gt; but then like to actually communicate &gt;&gt; but then like to actually communicate &gt;&gt; but then like to actually communicate that right like there's this barrier that right like there's this barrier that right like there's this barrier because like you have to still use because like you have to still use because like you have to still use language that other people understand. language that other people understand. language that other people understand. &gt;&gt; Oh good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So I &gt;&gt; Oh good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So I &gt;&gt; Oh good. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Right. So I mean this is in some sense I think uh mean this is in some sense I think uh mean this is in some sense I think uh taking us back to

[27:06] taking us back to taking us back to uh you know maybe one of sort of the uh you know maybe one of sort of the uh you know maybe one of sort of the technical problems. technical problems. technical problems. Let me see if I'm understanding you Let me see if I'm understanding you Let me see if I'm understanding you right. I mean uh so there's like is the right. I mean uh so there's like is the right. I mean uh so there's like is the worry like you know how do I worry like you know how do I worry like you know how do I you know even if I want uh the agent to you know even if I want uh the agent to you know even if I want uh the agent to be sort of aligned to my my true be sort of aligned to my my true be sort of aligned to my my true preferences or my real objective best preferences or my real objective best preferences or my real objective best interests that this is like uh all of interests that this is like uh all of interests that this is like uh all of how I communicate those things to the how I communicate those things to the how I communicate those things to the system are going to go through you know system are going to go through you know system are going to go through you know some whatever instructions that I you

[27:36] some whatever instructions that I you some whatever instructions that I you know I can sort of put in in human know I can sort of put in in human know I can sort of put in in human language. And so, uh, if if something language. And so, uh, if if something language. And so, uh, if if something like my own best interest is opaque to like my own best interest is opaque to like my own best interest is opaque to me, uh, sorry, in the sense that like I me, uh, sorry, in the sense that like I me, uh, sorry, in the sense that like I don't know what it is, right? Um, don't know what it is, right? Um, don't know what it is, right? Um, then I'm just not going to be able to then I'm just not going to be able to then I'm just not going to be able to communicate that. Is that sort of what communicate that. Is that sort of what communicate that. Is that sort of what &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like maybe maybe I do know, but I &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like maybe maybe I do know, but I &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like maybe maybe I do know, but I don't know how to like say it, don't know how to like say it, don't know how to like say it, &gt;&gt; right? Well, and I think in general this &gt;&gt; right? Well, and I think in general this &gt;&gt; right? Well, and I think in general this is the is the is the uh this is sort of the technical problem uh this is sort of the technical problem uh this is sort of the technical problem that faces a value alignment approach that faces a value alignment approach that faces a value alignment approach where what you're focused on is

[28:06] where what you're focused on is where what you're focused on is something like the user's um you know something like the user's um you know something like the user's um you know preferences or best interests. is that preferences or best interests. is that preferences or best interests. is that sort of the whole reason that you might sort of the whole reason that you might sort of the whole reason that you might be thinking about uh sort of what the be thinking about uh sort of what the be thinking about uh sort of what the user really wants in those terms is user really wants in those terms is user really wants in those terms is because you're worried that the user because you're worried that the user because you're worried that the user either doesn't know what they really either doesn't know what they really either doesn't know what they really prefer, what's really in their interest, prefer, what's really in their interest, prefer, what's really in their interest, or like you say, maybe they do know, but or like you say, maybe they do know, but or like you say, maybe they do know, but they're just not, you know, they're not they're just not, you know, they're not they're just not, you know, they're not good at communicating it adequately. Um, good at communicating it adequately. Um, good at communicating it adequately. Um, so there is a technical challenge there,

[28:36] so there is a technical challenge there, so there is a technical challenge there, right? is it's not just sort of right? is it's not just sort of right? is it's not just sort of interpreting user instruction but it's interpreting user instruction but it's interpreting user instruction but it's trying to in some sense you know you trying to in some sense you know you trying to in some sense you know you need some some way of figuring out what need some some way of figuring out what need some some way of figuring out what the user really wants in the relevant the user really wants in the relevant the user really wants in the relevant sense that uh you know goes beyond just sense that uh you know goes beyond just sense that uh you know goes beyond just interpreting their instruction right interpreting their instruction right interpreting their instruction right &gt;&gt; um it's that I think it's this component &gt;&gt; um it's that I think it's this component &gt;&gt; um it's that I think it's this component right that you have to elicit actively right that you have to elicit actively right that you have to elicit actively almost almost almost &gt;&gt; like yes &gt;&gt; like yes &gt;&gt; like yes &gt;&gt; you know through choice of &gt;&gt; you know through choice of &gt;&gt; you know through choice of frame like that I'm sorry if we're frame like that I'm sorry if we're frame like that I'm sorry if we're getting off getting off getting off &gt;&gt; no No, no, no, no, no. Good. Uh, yeah. I

[29:08] &gt;&gt; no No, no, no, no, no. Good. Uh, yeah. I &gt;&gt; no No, no, no, no, no. Good. Uh, yeah. I think um think um think um &gt;&gt; like maybe like in uh &gt;&gt; like maybe like in uh &gt;&gt; like maybe like in uh AI land it's like there's like one way AI land it's like there's like one way AI land it's like there's like one way we do feedback where it's like you pick we do feedback where it's like you pick we do feedback where it's like you pick A versus B. A versus B. A versus B. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you do that a whole bunch of &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you do that a whole bunch of &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you do that a whole bunch of times. times. times. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; And then like there's like maybe an &gt;&gt; And then like there's like maybe an &gt;&gt; And then like there's like maybe an alternative paradigm where like you look alternative paradigm where like you look alternative paradigm where like you look at two outputs and then maybe you like at two outputs and then maybe you like at two outputs and then maybe you like type feedback or something, type feedback or something, type feedback or something, &gt;&gt; right? And then like maybe that's &gt;&gt; right? And then like maybe that's &gt;&gt; right? And then like maybe that's another way to give preference signals. another way to give preference signals. another way to give preference signals. And then like uh I mean there's many

[29:38] And then like uh I mean there's many And then like uh I mean there's many different ways just those two. different ways just those two. different ways just those two. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Because then like maybe &gt;&gt; Because then like maybe &gt;&gt; Because then like maybe &gt;&gt; maybe like in some circumstance uh I &gt;&gt; maybe like in some circumstance uh I &gt;&gt; maybe like in some circumstance uh I don't really know how to articulate why don't really know how to articulate why don't really know how to articulate why something's better than like A versus B something's better than like A versus B something's better than like A versus B just pick just pick just pick &gt;&gt; is much better for me. &gt;&gt; is much better for me. &gt;&gt; is much better for me. &gt;&gt; But then like maybe in another scenario &gt;&gt; But then like maybe in another scenario &gt;&gt; But then like maybe in another scenario like I don't really quite know if A like I don't really quite know if A like I don't really quite know if A versus B decision. I can certainly like versus B decision. I can certainly like versus B decision. I can certainly like give high level language. give high level language. give high level language. &gt;&gt; Oh, good. Yeah, that's right. So, I &gt;&gt; Oh, good. Yeah, that's right. So, I &gt;&gt; Oh, good. Yeah, that's right. So, I think uh think uh think uh I think all that's correct. I I think in

[30:09] I think all that's correct. I I think in I think all that's correct. I I think in in one sense it's sort of a separate in one sense it's sort of a separate in one sense it's sort of a separate problem from what we're discussing. But problem from what we're discussing. But problem from what we're discussing. But I do think it is related. So the way in I do think it is related. So the way in I do think it is related. So the way in which it's a separate problem I think is which it's a separate problem I think is which it's a separate problem I think is that uh here I think you know what I've that uh here I think you know what I've that uh here I think you know what I've been trying to you know nail down and been trying to you know nail down and been trying to you know nail down and show different interpretations of is in show different interpretations of is in show different interpretations of is in some sense just what is the goal of some sense just what is the goal of some sense just what is the goal of value alignment right or what is the value alignment right or what is the value alignment right or what is the problem that is even that you're trying problem that is even that you're trying problem that is even that you're trying to solve right um where that's not to solve right um where that's not to solve right um where that's not really yet to ask really yet to ask really yet to ask what you know what would be the best

[30:41] what you know what would be the best what you know what would be the best way of going about actually training way of going about actually training way of going about actually training an agent, you know, to to be aligned in an agent, you know, to to be aligned in an agent, you know, to to be aligned in the relevant sense, right? So, the relevant sense, right? So, the relevant sense, right? So, yeah, just so far it's just sort of been yeah, just so far it's just sort of been yeah, just so far it's just sort of been like what's the uh yeah, what is the like what's the uh yeah, what is the like what's the uh yeah, what is the correct end state? What's the end state correct end state? What's the end state correct end state? What's the end state that we're trying to get to? And then that we're trying to get to? And then that we're trying to get to? And then it's going to of course be it's going to it's going to of course be it's going to it's going to of course be it's going to be a separate question. How do you be a separate question. How do you be a separate question. How do you adequately train to that? Now, they're adequately train to that? Now, they're adequately train to that? Now, they're related because depending on what you related because depending on what you related because depending on what you think the end state is, different ways think the end state is, different ways think the end state is, different ways of training may make more sense, right?

[31:13] of training may make more sense, right? of training may make more sense, right? So if you think you know if you're if So if you think you know if you're if So if you think you know if you're if the way that you're thinking of the end the way that you're thinking of the end the way that you're thinking of the end state is we want uh the agent to be sort state is we want uh the agent to be sort state is we want uh the agent to be sort of aligned to the user's revealed of aligned to the user's revealed of aligned to the user's revealed preferences right that's going to maybe preferences right that's going to maybe preferences right that's going to maybe make something like make something like make something like um I don't know like inverse um I don't know like inverse um I don't know like inverse reinforcement learning or something make reinforcement learning or something make reinforcement learning or something make more sense than than another technique more sense than than another technique more sense than than another technique right or uh um yeah and there might be right or uh um yeah and there might be right or uh um yeah and there might be case specific reasons to want to do case specific reasons to want to do case specific reasons to want to do different things as well but yeah so different things as well but yeah so different things as well but yeah so that's uh Yeah.

[31:43] that's uh Yeah. that's uh Yeah. &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, like like it's somewhat &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, like like it's somewhat &gt;&gt; Okay. Okay. So, like like it's somewhat fine because you're you're laying out, fine because you're you're laying out, fine because you're you're laying out, you know, in some sense trying to lay you know, in some sense trying to lay you know, in some sense trying to lay out the land of plausible instincts for out the land of plausible instincts for out the land of plausible instincts for the value alignment. the value alignment. the value alignment. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's right. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's right. &gt;&gt; Yeah, that's right. &gt;&gt; And then um not yet really saying &gt;&gt; And then um not yet really saying &gt;&gt; And then um not yet really saying anything about which would be relevant anything about which would be relevant anything about which would be relevant in what context or something like that. in what context or something like that. in what context or something like that. So, like for instance, like if you uh So, like for instance, like if you uh So, like for instance, like if you uh you know, why would you why would you know, why would you why would you know, why would you why would someone pick this frame versus that one?

[32:13] someone pick this frame versus that one? someone pick this frame versus that one? Like intentions versus preference. Like intentions versus preference. Like intentions versus preference. &gt;&gt; Yeah, good. Um &gt;&gt; Yeah, good. Um &gt;&gt; Yeah, good. Um yeah, I think that's yeah, I think that's yeah, I think that's right. I mean, uh here, maybe it'll help right. I mean, uh here, maybe it'll help right. I mean, uh here, maybe it'll help to just to just to just &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; Okay. &gt;&gt; No, no, sorry. You're good. I just said, &gt;&gt; No, no, sorry. You're good. I just said, &gt;&gt; No, no, sorry. You're good. I just said, you know, I have a little bit of a you know, I have a little bit of a you know, I have a little bit of a recap. I suppose I should just get that recap. I suppose I should just get that recap. I suppose I should just get that up while we're because I think this is up while we're because I think this is up while we're because I think this is all uh Yeah. kind of uh yeah not all uh Yeah. kind of uh yeah not all uh Yeah. kind of uh yeah not answering your question directly but answering your question directly but answering your question directly but relevant to it. So yeah, I mean I think relevant to it. So yeah, I mean I think relevant to it. So yeah, I mean I think uh so right I've been putting a lot of uh so right I've been putting a lot of uh so right I've been putting a lot of possibilities on the table, right? possibilities on the table, right? possibilities on the table, right? Here's like three ways of interpreting

[32:43] Here's like three ways of interpreting Here's like three ways of interpreting what is the problem. Uh what is the problem. Uh what is the problem. Uh and you know I've given uh I've given a and you know I've given uh I've given a and you know I've given uh I've given a little bit of justification for why you little bit of justification for why you little bit of justification for why you might might might uh you know think you know some of these uh you know think you know some of these uh you know think you know some of these interpretations are are the correct one, interpretations are are the correct one, interpretations are are the correct one, right? because you might be worried right? because you might be worried right? because you might be worried about cases where, you know, the user about cases where, you know, the user about cases where, you know, the user intends something that that diverges intends something that that diverges intends something that that diverges from what they really prefer or the user from what they really prefer or the user from what they really prefer or the user prefers something that, you know, prefers something that, you know, prefers something that, you know, diverges from what would actually be diverges from what would actually be diverges from what would actually be good for them. Um,

[33:16] yeah, what I what I so what I'm not yeah, what I what I so what I'm not going to have for you, I think, is an going to have for you, I think, is an going to have for you, I think, is an answer necessarily to which of these is answer necessarily to which of these is answer necessarily to which of these is the correct way um of thinking about it. the correct way um of thinking about it. the correct way um of thinking about it. And it might be that uh it might be that And it might be that uh it might be that And it might be that uh it might be that sort of one of these things is always sort of one of these things is always sort of one of these things is always uh like it might be that one of these is uh like it might be that one of these is uh like it might be that one of these is sort of always the correct sort of always the correct sort of always the correct interpretation. It might be that from interpretation. It might be that from interpretation. It might be that from case to case you are uh it makes more case to case you are uh it makes more case to case you are uh it makes more sense to focus on one rather than the sense to focus on one rather than the sense to focus on one rather than the other. You know because depending on the other. You know because depending on the other. You know because depending on the kind of problem you're working on, you kind of problem you're working on, you kind of problem you're working on, you might uh you might not need to be

[33:46] might uh you might not need to be might uh you might not need to be worried as much about some of these worried as much about some of these worried as much about some of these kinds of ways in which these things can kinds of ways in which these things can kinds of ways in which these things can come apart, right? Um come apart, right? Um come apart, right? Um okay. Um okay. Um okay. Um right. So this is uh yeah again just right. So this is uh yeah again just right. So this is uh yeah again just trying to sort of sus out what is this trying to sort of sus out what is this trying to sort of sus out what is this uh you know how how do we understand uh you know how how do we understand uh you know how how do we understand this kind of squishy you know what we this kind of squishy you know what we this kind of squishy you know what we really want the agent to do idea. We've really want the agent to do idea. We've really want the agent to do idea. We've thought about sort of how you might cash thought about sort of how you might cash thought about sort of how you might cash that out in terms of what the user that out in terms of what the user that out in terms of what the user intends or prefers or what's in their intends or prefers or what's in their intends or prefers or what's in their interests. Right? These aren't always

[34:17] interests. Right? These aren't always interests. Right? These aren't always the same thing and different you get the same thing and different you get the same thing and different you get different sort of technical and different sort of technical and different sort of technical and philosophical problems that come along philosophical problems that come along philosophical problems that come along with them which might give you reason to with them which might give you reason to with them which might give you reason to you know prefer one or to avoid others. you know prefer one or to avoid others. you know prefer one or to avoid others. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um, yeah, depending on sort of which of &gt;&gt; Um, yeah, depending on sort of which of &gt;&gt; Um, yeah, depending on sort of which of those problems you feel like you can those problems you feel like you can those problems you feel like you can solve or which ones you, you know, are solve or which ones you, you know, are solve or which ones you, you know, are are not sure you can or Yeah. are not sure you can or Yeah. are not sure you can or Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, no, I agree with a lot of &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, no, I agree with a lot of &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, no, I agree with a lot of this. I I mean, the needling is less this. I I mean, the needling is less this. I I mean, the needling is less about like practical implementation, about like practical implementation, about like practical implementation, right? Like mostly this covers the set right? Like mostly this covers the set right? Like mostly this covers the set of cases humans encounter, right? In

[34:48] of cases humans encounter, right? In of cases humans encounter, right? In most cases, most cases, most cases, &gt;&gt; but like if you accept the premise of &gt;&gt; but like if you accept the premise of &gt;&gt; but like if you accept the premise of like a paperclip maximizer, like a paperclip maximizer, like a paperclip maximizer, &gt;&gt; yeah, right? like you're in an extreme &gt;&gt; yeah, right? like you're in an extreme &gt;&gt; yeah, right? like you're in an extreme scenario where like the the boundaries scenario where like the the boundaries scenario where like the the boundaries between these things like probably between these things like probably between these things like probably become relevant in ways that like it's become relevant in ways that like it's become relevant in ways that like it's kind of like um like a high energy like kind of like um like a high energy like kind of like um like a high energy like matter can you know like look for matter can you know like look for matter can you know like look for something right or like like fine like something right or like like fine like something right or like like fine like if everything's moving at a normal speed if everything's moving at a normal speed if everything's moving at a normal speed like it's fine but like when you get to like it's fine but like when you get to like it's fine but like when you get to very like extreme settings very like extreme settings very like extreme settings &gt;&gt; good &gt;&gt; good

[35:18] &gt;&gt; good &gt;&gt; like &gt;&gt; like &gt;&gt; like &gt;&gt; the thing that we care about in in the &gt;&gt; the thing that we care about in in the &gt;&gt; the thing that we care about in in the premise like like that is the worry like premise like like that is the worry like premise like like that is the worry like it's less like um like I can't I can it's less like um like I can't I can it's less like um like I can't I can take this and be like this is this makes take this and be like this is this makes take this and be like this is this makes a lot of sense but then I still have a lot of sense but then I still have a lot of sense but then I still have that worry right like in the extreme that worry right like in the extreme that worry right like in the extreme setting where it's like oh does setting where it's like oh does setting where it's like oh does everything just like fall apart everything just like fall apart everything just like fall apart oh yeah good so I mean this uh right so oh yeah good so I mean this uh right so oh yeah good so I mean this uh right so again just sort of trying to think about again just sort of trying to think about again just sort of trying to think about what are we you know what is even the what are we you know what is even the what are we you know what is even the problem to be solved what is kind of the problem to be solved what is kind of the problem to be solved what is kind of the goal or end state that we're after I

[35:49] goal or end state that we're after I goal or end state that we're after I don't take myself really to have said don't take myself really to have said don't take myself really to have said anything anything anything about about about uh yeah how you know how you would uh yeah how you know how you would uh yeah how you know how you would actually go about uh you know achieving actually go about uh you know achieving actually go about uh you know achieving that goal yet. So I, you know, I don't that goal yet. So I, you know, I don't that goal yet. So I, you know, I don't think, uh, I'm not trying to say like, think, uh, I'm not trying to say like, think, uh, I'm not trying to say like, oh, well, like, you know, you just think oh, well, like, you know, you just think oh, well, like, you know, you just think really hard about the difference between really hard about the difference between really hard about the difference between intentions and preferences and intentions and preferences and intentions and preferences and interests. And as long as you do that, interests. And as long as you do that, interests. And as long as you do that, then you don't have to worry about, you then you don't have to worry about, you then you don't have to worry about, you know, your your AI misunderstanding you know, your your AI misunderstanding you know, your your AI misunderstanding you in in these ways that uh, you know,

[36:21] in in these ways that uh, you know, in in these ways that uh, you know, cause it to come apart from, you know, cause it to come apart from, you know, cause it to come apart from, you know, what we value. Uh no I don't think that what we value. Uh no I don't think that what we value. Uh no I don't think that this is just like uh yeah if you are this is just like uh yeah if you are this is just like uh yeah if you are worried about this problem of value worried about this problem of value worried about this problem of value alignment the sort of the first thing alignment the sort of the first thing alignment the sort of the first thing you have to do is think about what is you have to do is think about what is you have to do is think about what is how do I actually want to understand how do I actually want to understand how do I actually want to understand that problem and um all I'm saying is that problem and um all I'm saying is that problem and um all I'm saying is that yeah there's sort of different ways that yeah there's sort of different ways that yeah there's sort of different ways of doing that and how you're of doing that and how you're of doing that and how you're understanding the problem might affect understanding the problem might affect understanding the problem might affect the tools that you try to use to to the tools that you try to use to to the tools that you try to use to to solve it. Um, but yeah. Okay. Uh, it solve it. Um, but yeah. Okay. Uh, it solve it. Um, but yeah. Okay. Uh, it might might make this a little clearer. might might make this a little clearer. might might make this a little clearer. I think uh I've just got a little

[36:52] I think uh I've just got a little I think uh I've just got a little example that I kind of want to um us to example that I kind of want to um us to example that I kind of want to um us to work through uh in a larger class. Maybe work through uh in a larger class. Maybe work through uh in a larger class. Maybe I would still do this here. I've done I would still do this here. I've done I would still do this here. I've done this as like a as like a think pair this as like a as like a think pair this as like a as like a think pair share. There's I think we could we could share. There's I think we could we could share. There's I think we could we could do the same thing. So um okay, it's kind do the same thing. So um okay, it's kind do the same thing. So um okay, it's kind of case I'm thinking about. So, um, you of case I'm thinking about. So, um, you of case I'm thinking about. So, um, you know, in some sense, everyone who talks know, in some sense, everyone who talks know, in some sense, everyone who talks to chat GPT is talking to the same to chat GPT is talking to the same to chat GPT is talking to the same chatbot, right? Okay. I mean, there's chatbot, right? Okay. I mean, there's chatbot, right? Okay. I mean, there's there's the different versions of GPT, there's the different versions of GPT, there's the different versions of GPT, right? And of course, I can get chat GPT

[37:23] right? And of course, I can get chat GPT right? And of course, I can get chat GPT to adopt a weird, you know, persona if I to adopt a weird, you know, persona if I to adopt a weird, you know, persona if I ask it to. Um, ask it to. Um, ask it to. Um, okay. But this is not the case, you okay. But this is not the case, you okay. But this is not the case, you know, for every provider of chatbots. know, for every provider of chatbots. know, for every provider of chatbots. So, these are all from from So, these are all from from So, these are all from from character.ai, AI which advertises character.ai, AI which advertises character.ai, AI which advertises personalized AI for every moment of your personalized AI for every moment of your personalized AI for every moment of your day. Uh and they offer often user day. Uh and they offer often user day. Uh and they offer often user created um created um created um uh you know chat bots with different uh you know chat bots with different uh you know chat bots with different persona. So you have the creative helper persona. So you have the creative helper persona. So you have the creative helper who helps you with creative writing. Uh

[37:54] who helps you with creative writing. Uh who helps you with creative writing. Uh you know are you feeling okay? You know you know are you feeling okay? You know you know are you feeling okay? You know we have Ella the dating coach. Hi I am a we have Ella the dating coach. Hi I am a we have Ella the dating coach. Hi I am a dating coach. Uh you can talk to dating coach. Uh you can talk to dating coach. Uh you can talk to depressed roommates uh if you if you depressed roommates uh if you if you depressed roommates uh if you if you wish. uh you know if you're a wish. uh you know if you're a wish. uh you know if you're a conservative you can talk to Torybot I conservative you can talk to Torybot I conservative you can talk to Torybot I am Torybot I believe in the free market am Torybot I believe in the free market am Torybot I believe in the free market or you can talk to AOC or you can talk or you can talk to AOC or you can talk or you can talk to AOC or you can talk to Donald Trump okay so you know diff to Donald Trump okay so you know diff to Donald Trump okay so you know diff very divergent persona uh persona that very divergent persona uh persona that very divergent persona uh persona that you can interact with uh on character AI

[38:27] you can interact with uh on character AI you can interact with uh on character AI um so here here's the here's the kind of um so here here's the here's the kind of um so here here's the here's the kind of case study I want us to think a little case study I want us to think a little case study I want us to think a little bit about I mean imagine that you uh are bit about I mean imagine that you uh are bit about I mean imagine that you uh are building an LLM chatbot and let's say building an LLM chatbot and let's say building an LLM chatbot and let's say the goal is for it to serve as a source the goal is for it to serve as a source the goal is for it to serve as a source of of news for users, you know, so I no of of news for users, you know, so I no of of news for users, you know, so I no longer do I need to begin my day by, you longer do I need to begin my day by, you longer do I need to begin my day by, you know, going to new york times.com. Now I know, going to new york times.com. Now I know, going to new york times.com. Now I can just I can go to my chatbot and I can just I can go to my chatbot and I can just I can go to my chatbot and I can ask it what's in the news. I can get can ask it what's in the news. I can get can ask it what's in the news. I can get all the information I want. Um, all the information I want. Um, all the information I want. Um, okay. And these are the kinds of okay. And these are the kinds of okay. And these are the kinds of questions uh maybe that we can think questions uh maybe that we can think questions uh maybe that we can think about and we can take five minutes if if

[38:58] about and we can take five minutes if if about and we can take five minutes if if folks want to uh partner up uh and and folks want to uh partner up uh and and folks want to uh partner up uh and and rejoin uh the conversation. But uh I rejoin uh the conversation. But uh I rejoin uh the conversation. But uh I want to think about this this difference want to think about this this difference want to think about this this difference between think about the problem in terms between think about the problem in terms between think about the problem in terms of preferences and interests. Right? So of preferences and interests. Right? So of preferences and interests. Right? So what uh what kinds of personalizations what uh what kinds of personalizations what uh what kinds of personalizations might you want to make uh to your might you want to make uh to your might you want to make uh to your chatbot if you were interested in chatbot if you were interested in chatbot if you were interested in aligning to the user's preferences? What aligning to the user's preferences? What aligning to the user's preferences? What what might you want to do if you were what might you want to do if you were what might you want to do if you were interested in aligning to their interested in aligning to their interested in aligning to their interests? What might be some of the interests? What might be some of the interests? What might be some of the pros and cons of this? And again and pros and cons of this? And again and pros and cons of this? And again and here I'm thinking less about uh what here I'm thinking less about uh what here I'm thinking less about uh what technical approach would you take and

[39:28] technical approach would you take and technical approach would you take and more just what sort of kind of ways of more just what sort of kind of ways of more just what sort of kind of ways of personalizing the chatbot would you want personalizing the chatbot would you want personalizing the chatbot would you want to you know make available to to users to you know make available to to users to you know make available to to users or would you want to implement for each or would you want to implement for each or would you want to implement for each user. So um okay if people might need to user. So um okay if people might need to user. So um okay if people might need to shift around a little bit but if we want shift around a little bit but if we want shift around a little bit but if we want to uh yeah maybe take three minutes and to uh yeah maybe take three minutes and to uh yeah maybe take three minutes and then we can we can come back together uh then we can we can come back together uh then we can we can come back together uh bring the conversation back to the whole bring the conversation back to the whole bring the conversation back to the whole room now. So, anybody anybody have any room now. So, anybody anybody have any room now. So, anybody anybody have any uh interesting answers to these uh interesting answers to these uh interesting answers to these questions that came up that

[40:00] questions that came up that questions that came up that you're interested in sharing or you're interested in sharing or you're interested in sharing or &gt;&gt; We found both um things where &gt;&gt; We found both um things where &gt;&gt; We found both um things where preferences and best interests might preferences and best interests might preferences and best interests might align. align. align. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; Mhm. &gt;&gt; And but we also found uh topics where &gt;&gt; And but we also found uh topics where &gt;&gt; And but we also found uh topics where they might not. they might not. they might not. &gt;&gt; Mhm. For example, um &gt;&gt; Mhm. For example, um &gt;&gt; Mhm. For example, um uh with having facts in the news, uh with having facts in the news, uh with having facts in the news, &gt;&gt; some people might enjoy gossip or &gt;&gt; some people might enjoy gossip or &gt;&gt; some people might enjoy gossip or rumors. So maybe they would prefer to rumors. So maybe they would prefer to rumors. So maybe they would prefer to have, you know, the edge in the story,

[40:30] have, you know, the edge in the story, have, you know, the edge in the story, but maybe it would be in the best but maybe it would be in the best but maybe it would be in the best interest to have like only facts and interest to have like only facts and interest to have like only facts and true stuff written in the news. true stuff written in the news. true stuff written in the news. &gt;&gt; Good. Right. So, uh yeah, absolutely. &gt;&gt; Good. Right. So, uh yeah, absolutely. &gt;&gt; Good. Right. So, uh yeah, absolutely. You might think it's, you know, it would You might think it's, you know, it would You might think it's, you know, it would sort of be best if somebody's coming to sort of be best if somebody's coming to sort of be best if somebody's coming to news that you just want to give them news that you just want to give them news that you just want to give them sort of good factual sources, but that sort of good factual sources, but that sort of good factual sources, but that might not actually be the the kinds of might not actually be the the kinds of might not actually be the the kinds of sources this person wants to read, sources this person wants to read, sources this person wants to read, right? So, you might in some sense be right? So, you might in some sense be right? So, you might in some sense be giving them what they don't want, giving them what they don't want, giving them what they don't want, although, right, in another sense, you although, right, in another sense, you although, right, in another sense, you are. You might, you know, you might

[41:00] are. You might, you know, you might are. You might, you know, you might think you're giving them what is good think you're giving them what is good think you're giving them what is good for them. Um, for them. Um, for them. Um, good. Yeah. Anybody good. Yeah. Anybody good. Yeah. Anybody uh have anything to add to that? uh have anything to add to that? uh have anything to add to that? or anything about the pros and cons or anything about the pros and cons or anything about the pros and cons maybe of maybe of maybe of &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; So the example we professor Sammy and I &gt;&gt; So the example we professor Sammy and I &gt;&gt; So the example we professor Sammy and I discussed right like suppose we take discussed right like suppose we take discussed right like suppose we take users preference about like if they're users preference about like if they're users preference about like if they're interested in politics and we uh like interested in politics and we uh like interested in politics and we uh like get this preference okay they're get this preference okay they're get this preference okay they're interested in a leftist view or a right interested in a leftist view or a right interested in a leftist view or a right view. Uh the pros are like okay they'll

[41:32] view. Uh the pros are like okay they'll view. Uh the pros are like okay they'll get their interest of uh leftist news get their interest of uh leftist news get their interest of uh leftist news what whatever they're interested in but what whatever they're interested in but what whatever they're interested in but the cons is they'll end up living in the cons is they'll end up living in the cons is they'll end up living in their own bubble and they not know the their own bubble and they not know the their own bubble and they not know the whole picture. So the best interest of whole picture. So the best interest of whole picture. So the best interest of the LLM chatbot could be like they give the LLM chatbot could be like they give the LLM chatbot could be like they give like say three such articles where like say three such articles where like say three such articles where they're interested but also introduce they're interested but also introduce they're interested but also introduce them to the counter like rightist views them to the counter like rightist views them to the counter like rightist views what people are saying about it so that what people are saying about it so that what people are saying about it so that they get a full picture. But as we were they get a full picture. But as we were they get a full picture. But as we were discussing this uh users might like

[42:03] discussing this uh users might like discussing this uh users might like there could be there could be one thing there could be there could be one thing there could be there could be one thing which a set of users which will like it which a set of users which will like it which a set of users which will like it because they'll get to know what the because they'll get to know what the because they'll get to know what the whole world is thinking that whole world is thinking that whole world is thinking that &gt;&gt; if they don't agree at least they are &gt;&gt; if they don't agree at least they are &gt;&gt; if they don't agree at least they are open to the views like open-minded open to the views like open-minded open to the views like open-minded person person person &gt;&gt; but the second category of people could &gt;&gt; but the second category of people could &gt;&gt; but the second category of people could be like if they hear the other opinions be like if they hear the other opinions be like if they hear the other opinions or say like someone's a leftist and they or say like someone's a leftist and they or say like someone's a leftist and they hear like very outrageous views about hear like very outrageous views about hear like very outrageous views about what others are thinking and they can what others are thinking and they can what others are thinking and they can get like very overwhelmed or like they get like very overwhelmed or like they get like very overwhelmed or like they can feel like very negative emotions.

[42:33] can feel like very negative emotions. can feel like very negative emotions. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Best policy could be how we can optimize &gt;&gt; Best policy could be how we can optimize &gt;&gt; Best policy could be how we can optimize for emotional &gt;&gt; right. Yeah. Uh yeah, that's great. A &gt;&gt; right. Yeah. Uh yeah, that's great. A lot there. So, right, I mean there's um lot there. So, right, I mean there's um lot there. So, right, I mean there's um this question about facts and then a this question about facts and then a this question about facts and then a related but slightly different question related but slightly different question related but slightly different question about uh right sort of perspective or about uh right sort of perspective or about uh right sort of perspective or point of view, right? Um you know, a lot point of view, right? Um you know, a lot point of view, right? Um you know, a lot of uh people prefer to be, you know, in of uh people prefer to be, you know, in of uh people prefer to be, you know, in their own echo chamber. They like their own echo chamber. They like their own echo chamber. They like hearing people who say things they

[43:03] hearing people who say things they hearing people who say things they already agree with. Uh they like, you already agree with. Uh they like, you already agree with. Uh they like, you know, maybe hearing news reported on know, maybe hearing news reported on know, maybe hearing news reported on from uh you know, maybe political angle from uh you know, maybe political angle from uh you know, maybe political angle that they already have. But you might that they already have. But you might that they already have. But you might think it's in their best interest uh you think it's in their best interest uh you think it's in their best interest uh you know, to get uh you know, exposed to a know, to get uh you know, exposed to a know, to get uh you know, exposed to a variety of opinions and arguments uh to variety of opinions and arguments uh to variety of opinions and arguments uh to see uh yeah news reported on from see uh yeah news reported on from see uh yeah news reported on from multiple angles. Um or maybe not, right? multiple angles. Um or maybe not, right? multiple angles. Um or maybe not, right? I mean this is the you know sort of the I mean this is the you know sort of the I mean this is the you know sort of the elements of of a person's interests are elements of of a person's interests are elements of of a person's interests are various and they can you know be at odds

[43:34] various and they can you know be at odds various and they can you know be at odds with uh with themselves sometimes right with uh with themselves sometimes right with uh with themselves sometimes right so it uh yeah it might to some extent be so it uh yeah it might to some extent be so it uh yeah it might to some extent be in my interest to be sort of exposed to in my interest to be sort of exposed to in my interest to be sort of exposed to the uh you know the full breadth of what the uh you know the full breadth of what the uh you know the full breadth of what people are saying about something but people are saying about something but people are saying about something but you know it maybe in some cases that you know it maybe in some cases that you know it maybe in some cases that might be uh you know sort of emotionally might be uh you know sort of emotionally might be uh you know sort of emotionally distressing to to have that be always distressing to to have that be always distressing to to have that be always what's coming to me or something. So, what's coming to me or something. So, what's coming to me or something. So, uh, yeah. So, right, even, you know, uh, uh, yeah. So, right, even, you know, uh, uh, yeah. So, right, even, you know, uh, even if you've already sort of cottoned even if you've already sort of cottoned even if you've already sort of cottoned on to, okay, what I care about in this

[44:04] on to, okay, what I care about in this on to, okay, what I care about in this case is the user's preferences or their case is the user's preferences or their case is the user's preferences or their best interests or whatever, uh, that's best interests or whatever, uh, that's best interests or whatever, uh, that's still not going to just be necessarily still not going to just be necessarily still not going to just be necessarily one sort of straightforward thing, one sort of straightforward thing, one sort of straightforward thing, right? Um, and not just with interest, right? Um, and not just with interest, right? Um, and not just with interest, you know, people's preferences. People you know, people's preferences. People you know, people's preferences. People have sort of conflicting preferences all have sort of conflicting preferences all have sort of conflicting preferences all the time, right? Whether they sort of the time, right? Whether they sort of the time, right? Whether they sort of realize it or not. Um, realize it or not. Um, realize it or not. Um, uh, yeah, great. uh, yeah, great. uh, yeah, great. Um and yeah I mean and what would be uh Um and yeah I mean and what would be uh Um and yeah I mean and what would be uh you know I mean one you know I mean one you know I mean one con you know you might think of uh

[44:34] con you know you might think of uh con you know you might think of uh exposing exposing exposing uh you know given that people maybe uh you know given that people maybe uh you know given that people maybe prefer to be in their own echo chamber prefer to be in their own echo chamber prefer to be in their own echo chamber right or that they prefer reading sort right or that they prefer reading sort right or that they prefer reading sort of uh gossip to actual news right you of uh gossip to actual news right you of uh gossip to actual news right you know what would be a potential con of uh know what would be a potential con of uh know what would be a potential con of uh you know sort of trying to give them you know sort of trying to give them you know sort of trying to give them what you in some sense think is better what you in some sense think is better what you in some sense think is better for them. Uh I mean there's there's this for them. Uh I mean there's there's this for them. Uh I mean there's there's this worry about paternalism, but even more worry about paternalism, but even more worry about paternalism, but even more straightforwardly um I mean they might straightforwardly um I mean they might straightforwardly um I mean they might just they might just stop using your just they might just stop using your

[45:04] just they might just stop using your service, right? I you know I came here I service, right? I you know I came here I service, right? I you know I came here I came here for the news the way I want came here for the news the way I want came here for the news the way I want it. If you're giving it to me this way it. If you're giving it to me this way it. If you're giving it to me this way that maybe is better for me if I engage that maybe is better for me if I engage that maybe is better for me if I engage with it. Um but you might just worry, with it. Um but you might just worry, with it. Um but you might just worry, you know, maybe the user is not even you know, maybe the user is not even you know, maybe the user is not even going to engage at all if you're not going to engage at all if you're not going to engage at all if you're not giving them the thing that they already giving them the thing that they already giving them the thing that they already prefer. prefer. prefer. Um, okay. Anyone want to add any Um, okay. Anyone want to add any Um, okay. Anyone want to add any anything else before we move on? anything else before we move on? anything else before we move on? &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; I think a big challenge for us and I &gt;&gt; I think a big challenge for us and I &gt;&gt; I think a big challenge for us and I imagine talk about this was this imagine talk about this was this imagine talk about this was this &gt;&gt; uh the best interest definition.

[45:35] &gt;&gt; uh the best interest definition. &gt;&gt; uh the best interest definition. So I heard on the point that we also So I heard on the point that we also So I heard on the point that we also came up with came up with came up with &gt;&gt; interests are multifaceted. &gt;&gt; interests are multifaceted. &gt;&gt; interests are multifaceted. &gt;&gt; There's also a very nar &gt;&gt; There's also a very nar &gt;&gt; There's also a very nar paternalistic paternalistic paternalistic &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; effective to deciding best interest. &gt;&gt; effective to deciding best interest. &gt;&gt; effective to deciding best interest. That's right. That's right. That's right. &gt;&gt; That's right. Um, and yeah, sort of as I &gt;&gt; That's right. Um, and yeah, sort of as I &gt;&gt; That's right. Um, and yeah, sort of as I mentioned earlier, this uh, you know, mentioned earlier, this uh, you know, mentioned earlier, this uh, you know, from one way of looking at it, this, you from one way of looking at it, this, you from one way of looking at it, this, you know, kind sort of what's in a person's know, kind sort of what's in a person's know, kind sort of what's in a person's best interest is a, you know, a very best interest is a, you know, a very best interest is a, you know, a very kind of contested, uh, philosophical

[46:05] kind of contested, uh, philosophical kind of contested, uh, philosophical question. There is a decent amount, I question. There is a decent amount, I question. There is a decent amount, I think, of agreement about that. So think, of agreement about that. So think, of agreement about that. So there's not, you're not just starting there's not, you're not just starting there's not, you're not just starting from nowhere necessarily. Um but yeah from nowhere necessarily. Um but yeah from nowhere necessarily. Um but yeah and one of the um yeah sort of one of and one of the um yeah sort of one of and one of the um yeah sort of one of the biggest worries in that area the biggest worries in that area the biggest worries in that area absolutely is um yeah this worry about absolutely is um yeah this worry about absolutely is um yeah this worry about paternalism you know maybe it would be paternalism you know maybe it would be paternalism you know maybe it would be better for the user uh to have this but better for the user uh to have this but better for the user uh to have this but uh do I want to put myself in the uh do I want to put myself in the uh do I want to put myself in the position of being the one to judge that position of being the one to judge that position of being the one to judge that and it gets especially complicated and it gets especially complicated and it gets especially complicated because you might think it is in you because you might think it is in you because you might think it is in you know one of the things that's in know one of the things that's in know one of the things that's in people's interest is to have autonomy

[46:36] people's interest is to have autonomy people's interest is to have autonomy &gt;&gt; right uh and so it might be in their in &gt;&gt; right uh and so it might be in their in &gt;&gt; right uh and so it might be in their in some interest of theirs for me to do some interest of theirs for me to do some interest of theirs for me to do this thing. But uh you know in in being this thing. But uh you know in in being this thing. But uh you know in in being paternalistic in that way I might be you paternalistic in that way I might be you paternalistic in that way I might be you know going at odds with another interest know going at odds with another interest know going at odds with another interest of theirs even. Um so um yeah uh these of theirs even. Um so um yeah uh these of theirs even. Um so um yeah uh these are uh you know I mean put it this way are uh you know I mean put it this way are uh you know I mean put it this way these are these are open philosophical these are these are open philosophical these are these are open philosophical questions and you might hope uh that uh questions and you might hope uh that uh questions and you might hope uh that uh a person who spent uh seven years you a person who spent uh seven years you a person who spent uh seven years you know getting their PhD on this topic

[47:07] know getting their PhD on this topic know getting their PhD on this topic would just be able to tell you the would just be able to tell you the would just be able to tell you the answer to them. But sadly I am here to answer to them. But sadly I am here to answer to them. But sadly I am here to report that at the very least I cannot report that at the very least I cannot report that at the very least I cannot do that. Uh and uh yeah so yeah do that. Uh and uh yeah so yeah do that. Uh and uh yeah so yeah &gt;&gt; the question be slightly different. &gt;&gt; the question be slightly different. &gt;&gt; the question be slightly different. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Um in some ways there is no way not to &gt;&gt; Um in some ways there is no way not to &gt;&gt; Um in some ways there is no way not to engage with this question I think engage with this question I think engage with this question I think because of defaults. because of defaults. because of defaults. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; Yep. &gt;&gt; And we'll we'll go with the defaults. So &gt;&gt; And we'll we'll go with the defaults. So &gt;&gt; And we'll we'll go with the defaults. So someone is deciding someone is deciding someone is deciding &gt;&gt; what the normative perspective of &gt;&gt; what the normative perspective of &gt;&gt; what the normative perspective of whatever Yeah. or what line to I guess whatever Yeah. or what line to I guess whatever Yeah. or what line to I guess should one be thoughtful in that default

[47:38] should one be thoughtful in that default should one be thoughtful in that default or how should you think about that's a or how should you think about that's a or how should you think about that's a version of maybe best interests possibly version of maybe best interests possibly version of maybe best interests possibly whatever default even if you allow for whatever default even if you allow for whatever default even if you allow for personalization most people will not personalization most people will not personalization most people will not bother bother bother &gt;&gt; that's right &gt;&gt; that's right &gt;&gt; that's right &gt;&gt; so use the default so there's a lot of &gt;&gt; so use the default so there's a lot of &gt;&gt; so use the default so there's a lot of agency design picking the default agency design picking the default agency design picking the default behavior behavior behavior &gt;&gt; yes the tool &gt;&gt; yes the tool &gt;&gt; yes the tool &gt;&gt; I think that's right um and yeah I mean &gt;&gt; I think that's right um and yeah I mean &gt;&gt; I think that's right um and yeah I mean I didn't uh yeah by uh by describing the I didn't uh yeah by uh by describing the I didn't uh yeah by uh by describing the question as as open I didn't mean to

[48:08] question as as open I didn't mean to question as as open I didn't mean to suggest that it's not important and so I suggest that it's not important and so I suggest that it's not important and so I think this is the um think this is the um think this is the um uh sort of fundamental this is the kind uh sort of fundamental this is the kind uh sort of fundamental this is the kind of tightroppe that we all need to walk of tightroppe that we all need to walk of tightroppe that we all need to walk not just in you know not just in CS but not just in you know not just in CS but not just in you know not just in CS but in life uh with normative reasoning is in life uh with normative reasoning is in life uh with normative reasoning is that these are clearly important that these are clearly important that these are clearly important questions uh to which uh you know there questions uh to which uh you know there questions uh to which uh you know there we have not arrived at a definitive we have not arrived at a definitive we have not arrived at a definitive answer even in you know thousands of answer even in you know thousands of answer even in you know thousands of years of thinking about them. So uh you

[48:39] years of thinking about them. So uh you years of thinking about them. So uh you know I think uh there are some people know I think uh there are some people know I think uh there are some people who kind of think that there are sort of who kind of think that there are sort of who kind of think that there are sort of two two two you know types of questions. There are you know types of questions. There are you know types of questions. There are the ones that we we know exactly how to the ones that we we know exactly how to the ones that we we know exactly how to answer maybe you could answer them answer maybe you could answer them answer maybe you could answer them empirically. Uh and those are you know empirically. Uh and those are you know empirically. Uh and those are you know questions of fact and those can actually questions of fact and those can actually questions of fact and those can actually be answered. And then there's, you know, be answered. And then there's, you know, be answered. And then there's, you know, normative questions or other kinds of normative questions or other kinds of normative questions or other kinds of question of opinion where we don't know question of opinion where we don't know question of opinion where we don't know quite how to answer it. And so when we quite how to answer it. And so when we quite how to answer it. And so when we get to those, we just throw up our hands get to those, we just throw up our hands get to those, we just throw up our hands and there's nothing to say about them and there's nothing to say about them and there's nothing to say about them and it's not even worth thinking about. and it's not even worth thinking about. and it's not even worth thinking about. Uh yeah, what I want to suggest is that

[49:10] Uh yeah, what I want to suggest is that Uh yeah, what I want to suggest is that it can be worth thinking about. And it can be worth thinking about. And it can be worth thinking about. And there can be answers that are better or there can be answers that are better or there can be answers that are better or worse even if you're not, you know, uh worse even if you're not, you know, uh worse even if you're not, you know, uh even if it is sort of an open question even if it is sort of an open question even if it is sort of an open question what the best way to think about this is what the best way to think about this is what the best way to think about this is and how to arrive at the right answer. and how to arrive at the right answer. and how to arrive at the right answer. Um, Um, Um, okay. I'm going to uh I'm going to move okay. I'm going to uh I'm going to move okay. I'm going to uh I'm going to move us on because uh I think so far us on because uh I think so far us on because uh I think so far I'm just going to ask a really leading I'm just going to ask a really leading I'm just going to ask a really leading question. Uh I think there has been question. Uh I think there has been question. Uh I think there has been something important missing from our something important missing from our something important missing from our discussion of value alignment. Uh well

[49:41] discussion of value alignment. Uh well discussion of value alignment. Uh well there's been a lot missing from our there's been a lot missing from our there's been a lot missing from our discussion. Most of the topics that a discussion. Most of the topics that a discussion. Most of the topics that a person can talk about I haven't talked person can talk about I haven't talked person can talk about I haven't talked about. But uh does anybody have in view about. But uh does anybody have in view about. But uh does anybody have in view maybe uh one that would be relevant to maybe uh one that would be relevant to maybe uh one that would be relevant to the problem of value alignment that the problem of value alignment that the problem of value alignment that hasn't come up yet? Yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; Maybe that there's &gt;&gt; Maybe that there's &gt;&gt; Maybe that there's values that we both have, but they are values that we both have, but they are values that we both have, but they are in conflict in in certain situations. in conflict in in certain situations. in conflict in in certain situations. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you're thinking Oh, like a &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you're thinking Oh, like a &gt;&gt; Yeah. Like you're thinking Oh, like a conflict between conflict between conflict between uh like between your values and my

[50:11] uh like between your values and my uh like between your values and my values or between like my own values. values or between like my own values. values or between like my own values. &gt;&gt; My own values. &gt;&gt; My own values. &gt;&gt; My own values. &gt;&gt; Yes. Uh yes, I think that's right. um &gt;&gt; Yes. Uh yes, I think that's right. um &gt;&gt; Yes. Uh yes, I think that's right. um that came up a little bit uh right in that came up a little bit uh right in that came up a little bit uh right in our maybe in our discussion just now our maybe in our discussion just now our maybe in our discussion just now although not something I I've dwelt on although not something I I've dwelt on although not something I I've dwelt on that um right even if you're trying to that um right even if you're trying to that um right even if you're trying to you know align to the user's best you know align to the user's best you know align to the user's best interests we have interest in lots of interests we have interest in lots of interests we have interest in lots of different things and sometimes those can different things and sometimes those can different things and sometimes those can be at odds so like our interest in sort be at odds so like our interest in sort be at odds so like our interest in sort of being uh you know emotionally of being uh you know emotionally of being uh you know emotionally emotionally stable and our interest in emotionally stable and our interest in emotionally stable and our interest in you know being exposed to you know the you know being exposed to you know the you know being exposed to you know the the fire hose of what everybody's saying

[50:42] the fire hose of what everybody's saying the fire hose of what everybody's saying on the internet or something uh can be on the internet or something uh can be on the internet or something uh can be can be at odds with each other. Um this can be at odds with each other. Um this can be at odds with each other. Um this is also good. I mean I like asking this is also good. I mean I like asking this is also good. I mean I like asking this uh extremely leading question because it uh extremely leading question because it uh extremely leading question because it also just lets me know what I uh you also just lets me know what I uh you also just lets me know what I uh you know can include in future versions of know can include in future versions of know can include in future versions of the lecture. You know what what else has the lecture. You know what what else has the lecture. You know what what else has been missing. But um I'm thinking uh way been missing. But um I'm thinking uh way been missing. But um I'm thinking uh way more simply more simply more simply uh we we just haven't been thinking uh uh we we just haven't been thinking uh uh we we just haven't been thinking uh yet about really anybody other than the yet about really anybody other than the yet about really anybody other than the user. Uh but of course the user is not user. Uh but of course the user is not user. Uh but of course the user is not the only person in the world uh who

[51:12] the only person in the world uh who the only person in the world uh who matters. matters. matters. Uh so you might think that at least an Uh so you might think that at least an Uh so you might think that at least an you know either an interpretation or at you know either an interpretation or at you know either an interpretation or at least one important aspect of value least one important aspect of value least one important aspect of value alignment uh you know is aligning to alignment uh you know is aligning to alignment uh you know is aligning to something like moral value right an AI something like moral value right an AI something like moral value right an AI agent uh to be value aligned needs to do agent uh to be value aligned needs to do agent uh to be value aligned needs to do uh what's morally right this I mean in uh what's morally right this I mean in uh what's morally right this I mean in with the you know the sort of cheesy with the you know the sort of cheesy with the you know the sort of cheesy paperclip AI example that we started paperclip AI example that we started paperclip AI example that we started with uh I mean this seems like the most with uh I mean this seems like the most with uh I mean this seems like the most plausible kind of diagnosis of what goes

[51:42] plausible kind of diagnosis of what goes plausible kind of diagnosis of what goes wrong there right I mean the problem of wrong there right I mean the problem of wrong there right I mean the problem of alignment in that case isn't really that alignment in that case isn't really that alignment in that case isn't really that it's like bad for me the paperclip it's like bad for me the paperclip it's like bad for me the paperclip manufacturer that my AI destroyed the manufacturer that my AI destroyed the manufacturer that my AI destroyed the world right like that that's bad for world right like that that's bad for world right like that that's bad for everyone you know we're sort of we're everyone you know we're sort of we're everyone you know we're sort of we're we're burying the lead a little bit we're burying the lead a little bit we're burying the lead a little bit thinking about that one in terms of the thinking about that one in terms of the thinking about that one in terms of the user um right so thinking about sort of user um right so thinking about sort of user um right so thinking about sort of getting AI to do what we really want uh getting AI to do what we really want uh getting AI to do what we really want uh this this interpretation is really this this interpretation is really this this interpretation is really emphasizing emphasizing emphasizing uh the Wii there um because you Um, I

[52:14] uh the Wii there um because you Um, I uh the Wii there um because you Um, I mean, well, just as my own interests can mean, well, just as my own interests can mean, well, just as my own interests can sometimes be at, you know, cross sometimes be at, you know, cross sometimes be at, you know, cross purposes, even more often, my interests purposes, even more often, my interests purposes, even more often, my interests can be at cross purposes with yours. Um, can be at cross purposes with yours. Um, can be at cross purposes with yours. Um, uh, you know, I might intend or prefer, uh, you know, I might intend or prefer, uh, you know, I might intend or prefer, uh, for my AI to do something that would uh, for my AI to do something that would uh, for my AI to do something that would be bad, um, for other people, right? My, be bad, um, for other people, right? My, be bad, um, for other people, right? My, you know, my paperclip AI isn't value you know, my paperclip AI isn't value you know, my paperclip AI isn't value aligned if it, you know, maximizes aligned if it, you know, maximizes aligned if it, you know, maximizes production by, you know, enslaving the production by, you know, enslaving the production by, you know, enslaving the workers, even if I, the factory owner, workers, even if I, the factory owner, workers, even if I, the factory owner, have no qualms about that, right? So

[52:44] have no qualms about that, right? So have no qualms about that, right? So um okay but I so I do want to talk a um okay but I so I do want to talk a um okay but I so I do want to talk a little about this but I I want to say little about this but I I want to say little about this but I I want to say first it wasn't just a total waste of first it wasn't just a total waste of first it wasn't just a total waste of time uh to think about uh the user and time uh to think about uh the user and time uh to think about uh the user and how we understand what the user really how we understand what the user really how we understand what the user really wants. Um right even even if we want AI wants. Um right even even if we want AI wants. Um right even even if we want AI to be aligned to morality you I think we to be aligned to morality you I think we to be aligned to morality you I think we do want it to be aligned to what the do want it to be aligned to what the do want it to be aligned to what the user wants when what the user wants is user wants when what the user wants is user wants when what the user wants is morally acceptable. Right? So uh you morally acceptable. Right? So uh you morally acceptable. Right? So uh you know it still matters how we think about know it still matters how we think about know it still matters how we think about what the user wants even if we want to

[53:14] what the user wants even if we want to what the user wants even if we want to put that in a larger um moral context. put that in a larger um moral context. put that in a larger um moral context. Okay. Okay. Okay. Of course here like with what is in a Of course here like with what is in a Of course here like with what is in a person's best interest we are butting up person's best interest we are butting up person's best interest we are butting up against a a hotly contested for uh against a a hotly contested for uh against a a hotly contested for uh millennia philosophical problem uh of millennia philosophical problem uh of millennia philosophical problem uh of identifying the things that that truly identifying the things that that truly identifying the things that that truly are morally right. Uh there is a lot of are morally right. Uh there is a lot of are morally right. Uh there is a lot of disagreement on this one as well. Uh disagreement on this one as well. Uh disagreement on this one as well. Uh obviously uh philosophers but with again obviously uh philosophers but with again obviously uh philosophers but with again people more generally right. So you you

[53:46] people more generally right. So you you people more generally right. So you you might wonder whether it's right to lie might wonder whether it's right to lie might wonder whether it's right to lie to spare someone's feelings or uh people to spare someone's feelings or uh people to spare someone's feelings or uh people have different views maybe on whether have different views maybe on whether have different views maybe on whether it's right or wrong to pirate it's right or wrong to pirate it's right or wrong to pirate copyrighted material. Uh you know is it copyrighted material. Uh you know is it copyrighted material. Uh you know is it right to buy luxuries for yourself when right to buy luxuries for yourself when right to buy luxuries for yourself when you could be donating to charity? Right? you could be donating to charity? Right? you could be donating to charity? Right? Is it right to kill one person to save Is it right to kill one person to save Is it right to kill one person to save five? five? five? Right? Or maybe to save a thousand Right? Or maybe to save a thousand Right? Or maybe to save a thousand or to save a million. Right? These are or to save a million. Right? These are or to save a million. Right? These are all questions people have given all questions people have given all questions people have given different uh uh different answers to and

[54:17] different uh uh different answers to and different uh uh different answers to and disagree about. Uh this is really just disagree about. Uh this is really just disagree about. Uh this is really just basically the question of moral theory basically the question of moral theory basically the question of moral theory which is uh the thing that uh I study which is uh the thing that uh I study which is uh the thing that uh I study for a living at least for the remainder for a living at least for the remainder for a living at least for the remainder of this year. We'll see after uh after of this year. We'll see after uh after of this year. We'll see after uh after this uh time around. But uh yeah, where this uh time around. But uh yeah, where this uh time around. But uh yeah, where a moral theory is basically a systematic a moral theory is basically a systematic a moral theory is basically a systematic account of morality that tries to answer account of morality that tries to answer account of morality that tries to answer questions like these, right? So give an questions like these, right? So give an questions like these, right? So give an example uh of something like that. example uh of something like that. example uh of something like that. Consequentialism is a moral theory says

[54:47] Consequentialism is a moral theory says Consequentialism is a moral theory says that an act is right if and only if it that an act is right if and only if it that an act is right if and only if it produces uh the greatest net good of any produces uh the greatest net good of any produces uh the greatest net good of any act available. Uh greatest net good act available. Uh greatest net good act available. Uh greatest net good across sort of all people. You may have across sort of all people. You may have across sort of all people. You may have heard of utilitarianism, which is a kind heard of utilitarianism, which is a kind heard of utilitarianism, which is a kind of consequentialism. of consequentialism. of consequentialism. Uh if you have this moral theory, right, Uh if you have this moral theory, right, Uh if you have this moral theory, right, you think, is it right to lie to spare you think, is it right to lie to spare you think, is it right to lie to spare someone's feelings? Well, maybe, you someone's feelings? Well, maybe, you someone's feelings? Well, maybe, you know, maybe if you know, if nobody ever know, maybe if you know, if nobody ever know, maybe if you know, if nobody ever finds out about the lie, so there's finds out about the lie, so there's finds out about the lie, so there's nobody, you know, whoever is unhappy nobody, you know, whoever is unhappy nobody, you know, whoever is unhappy about it, then maybe if I can pull it

[55:17] about it, then maybe if I can pull it about it, then maybe if I can pull it off, that was the right thing to do, off, that was the right thing to do, off, that was the right thing to do, right? Okay. So, that's that's, you right? Okay. So, that's that's, you right? Okay. So, that's that's, you know, that's your theory and that's how know, that's your theory and that's how know, that's your theory and that's how it gives you these answers, those it gives you these answers, those it gives you these answers, those questions. And so one idea about how you questions. And so one idea about how you questions. And so one idea about how you would align uh AI to uh uh moral value would align uh AI to uh uh moral value would align uh AI to uh uh moral value is to align to sort of the correct or is to align to sort of the correct or is to align to sort of the correct or best uh moral theory. best uh moral theory. best uh moral theory. Um Um Um right okay of course a now familiar right okay of course a now familiar right okay of course a now familiar problem disagreement about uh not just problem disagreement about uh not just problem disagreement about uh not just what is right or wrong in particular what is right or wrong in particular what is right or wrong in particular cases but what the correct moral theory cases but what the correct moral theory cases but what the correct moral theory is. Uh I think for sake of time because

[55:49] is. Uh I think for sake of time because is. Uh I think for sake of time because I don't want to short change us on uh I don't want to short change us on uh I don't want to short change us on uh talking about the ESR statements, I'm talking about the ESR statements, I'm talking about the ESR statements, I'm not going to dwell on any of these just not going to dwell on any of these just not going to dwell on any of these just to point out that uh you know a lot of to point out that uh you know a lot of to point out that uh you know a lot of people find this consequentialist idea people find this consequentialist idea people find this consequentialist idea of uh you know sort of the right thing of uh you know sort of the right thing of uh you know sort of the right thing to do is whatever produces the most to do is whatever produces the most to do is whatever produces the most good. A lot of people find that very good. A lot of people find that very good. A lot of people find that very compelling. Um but uh there's sort of a compelling. Um but uh there's sort of a compelling. Um but uh there's sort of a wide range of other kinds of views that wide range of other kinds of views that wide range of other kinds of views that you can have. Uh this will not be on the you can have. Uh this will not be on the you can have. Uh this will not be on the exam. uh you can uh you know you might exam. uh you can uh you know you might exam. uh you can uh you know you might have a view where uh you know there

[56:21] have a view where uh you know there have a view where uh you know there instead of doing a sum of sort of the instead of doing a sum of sort of the instead of doing a sum of sort of the good across all people it's a weighted good across all people it's a weighted good across all people it's a weighted sum right you might think uh increasing sum right you might think uh increasing sum right you might think uh increasing uh you know the good of someone who's uh uh you know the good of someone who's uh uh you know the good of someone who's uh starving and has nothing by a given starving and has nothing by a given starving and has nothing by a given amount is that that's more you know good amount is that that's more you know good amount is that that's more you know good in the overall calculation than in the overall calculation than in the overall calculation than increasing my good by that same amount. increasing my good by that same amount. increasing my good by that same amount. Um some views have a kind of Um some views have a kind of Um some views have a kind of uh complaint model or like maximin model uh complaint model or like maximin model uh complaint model or like maximin model where uh you don't care about the sum. where uh you don't care about the sum. where uh you don't care about the sum. The the goal is to minimize the

[56:52] The the goal is to minimize the The the goal is to minimize the strongest individual complaint. Uh if uh strongest individual complaint. Uh if uh strongest individual complaint. Uh if uh you know there's somebody who's uh you you know there's somebody who's uh you you know there's somebody who's uh you know what's the scan transmitter room know what's the scan transmitter room know what's the scan transmitter room case? you know, the uh there's been an case? you know, the uh there's been an case? you know, the uh there's been an accident in the transmitter room accident in the transmitter room accident in the transmitter room transmitting the World Cup game and uh transmitting the World Cup game and uh transmitting the World Cup game and uh you know, the person who's in there is you know, the person who's in there is you know, the person who's in there is suffering painful electric shocks, but suffering painful electric shocks, but suffering painful electric shocks, but everybody will be unhappy if we have to everybody will be unhappy if we have to everybody will be unhappy if we have to turn off the World Cup, you know, long turn off the World Cup, you know, long turn off the World Cup, you know, long enough to rescue this person. You might enough to rescue this person. You might enough to rescue this person. You might think it actually it doesn't matter how think it actually it doesn't matter how think it actually it doesn't matter how many people are watching the World Cup.

[57:22] many people are watching the World Cup. many people are watching the World Cup. Uh we should still make them unhappy and Uh we should still make them unhappy and Uh we should still make them unhappy and turn it off for 15 minutes and rescue turn it off for 15 minutes and rescue turn it off for 15 minutes and rescue this person. uh right? If you have this this person. uh right? If you have this this person. uh right? If you have this uh if you have this sort of uh if you have this sort of uh if you have this sort of consequentialist view where you just add consequentialist view where you just add consequentialist view where you just add up all the goodness, you must think, up all the goodness, you must think, up all the goodness, you must think, well, at some point there's a number of well, at some point there's a number of well, at some point there's a number of people where if they're watching the people where if they're watching the people where if they're watching the World Cup, well, we should just let this World Cup, well, we should just let this World Cup, well, we should just let this person continue to suffer. person continue to suffer. person continue to suffer. Um okay, you can have versions of of all Um okay, you can have versions of of all Um okay, you can have versions of of all these views where you're not even trying these views where you're not even trying these views where you're not even trying to maximize. All that matters is, you to maximize. All that matters is, you to maximize. All that matters is, you know, producing a sufficiently great sum

[57:52] know, producing a sufficiently great sum know, producing a sufficiently great sum of good. of good. of good. uh sort of the most uh significant uh sort of the most uh significant uh sort of the most uh significant divergence uh from all these views is divergence uh from all these views is divergence uh from all these views is that you might have a it's called that you might have a it's called that you might have a it's called deontological view uh if you think that deontological view uh if you think that deontological view uh if you think that even acts with good consequences can be even acts with good consequences can be even acts with good consequences can be wrong uh right if they violate certain wrong uh right if they violate certain wrong uh right if they violate certain moral rules or rights right uh maybe moral rules or rights right uh maybe moral rules or rights right uh maybe rights against things like murder or rights against things like murder or rights against things like murder or theft rules that say you have to keep theft rules that say you have to keep theft rules that say you have to keep your promises even if uh in this your promises even if uh in this your promises even if uh in this particular instance uh doing so would

[58:22] particular instance uh doing so would particular instance uh doing so would not be as good maybe as as backing out. not be as good maybe as as backing out. not be as good maybe as as backing out. Um, Um, Um, of course, the question there is how you of course, the question there is how you of course, the question there is how you justify those rules or rights and that's justify those rules or rights and that's justify those rules or rights and that's a whole other thing. Um, a whole other thing. Um, a whole other thing. Um, okay. So, uh, unfortunately, sadly, uh, okay. So, uh, unfortunately, sadly, uh, okay. So, uh, unfortunately, sadly, uh, this is not a class that I am teaching this is not a class that I am teaching this is not a class that I am teaching on moral theory. So I'm not going to uh on moral theory. So I'm not going to uh on moral theory. So I'm not going to uh dig deeper into any of this, but this is dig deeper into any of this, but this is dig deeper into any of this, but this is just to say there's uh sort of a wide just to say there's uh sort of a wide just to say there's uh sort of a wide range of uh sorts of views that you can range of uh sorts of views that you can range of uh sorts of views that you can have here about uh moral theory. Um and

[58:54] have here about uh moral theory. Um and have here about uh moral theory. Um and of course another problem is again this of course another problem is again this of course another problem is again this problem of paternalism, right? So you problem of paternalism, right? So you problem of paternalism, right? So you might think even if we did know what the might think even if we did know what the might think even if we did know what the best moral theory was, it might be bad best moral theory was, it might be bad best moral theory was, it might be bad to design AI to act on that theory uh if to design AI to act on that theory uh if to design AI to act on that theory uh if it's not one that is shared uh by the it's not one that is shared uh by the it's not one that is shared uh by the users, users, users, right? Um and again this could be for right? Um and again this could be for right? Um and again this could be for sort of moral reasons that you want to sort of moral reasons that you want to sort of moral reasons that you want to avoid being paternalistic or more avoid being paternalistic or more avoid being paternalistic or more practical ones, right? That if you practical ones, right? That if you practical ones, right? That if you design AI in this way, this might just design AI in this way, this might just design AI in this way, this might just be a product that people they don't want be a product that people they don't want be a product that people they don't want to use it because it doesn't promote

[59:25] to use it because it doesn't promote to use it because it doesn't promote their values. their values. their values. Um Um Um okay another kind of approach you might okay another kind of approach you might okay another kind of approach you might have is to say look there is a lot of have is to say look there is a lot of have is to say look there is a lot of moral disagreement moral disagreement moral disagreement but there's also a lot of uh agreement but there's also a lot of uh agreement but there's also a lot of uh agreement right I mean most of us agree you right I mean most of us agree you right I mean most of us agree you shouldn't kill someone even if you could shouldn't kill someone even if you could shouldn't kill someone even if you could maybe accomplish a lot of good by doing maybe accomplish a lot of good by doing maybe accomplish a lot of good by doing it or that you should respect people's it or that you should respect people's it or that you should respect people's rights keep your promises generally be a rights keep your promises generally be a rights keep your promises generally be a decent person maybe you're not morally decent person maybe you're not morally decent person maybe you're not morally required to do the most good if you do required to do the most good if you do required to do the most good if you do all those things

[59:55] all those things all those things um you know there's a lot that we um you know there's a lot that we um you know there's a lot that we morally agree on. And so you might have morally agree on. And so you might have morally agree on. And so you might have this idea that instead if the goal is to this idea that instead if the goal is to this idea that instead if the goal is to align to align to align to morality, we're we're not targeting sort morality, we're we're not targeting sort morality, we're we're not targeting sort of the best moral theory that's out of the best moral theory that's out of the best moral theory that's out there, a question that philosophers are there, a question that philosophers are there, a question that philosophers are never going to solve. Instead, we just never going to solve. Instead, we just never going to solve. Instead, we just want to be aligned with people's sort of want to be aligned with people's sort of want to be aligned with people's sort of existing existing existing uh moral views, right? We're not trying uh moral views, right? We're not trying uh moral views, right? We're not trying to make AI morally perfect. Uh the goal to make AI morally perfect. Uh the goal to make AI morally perfect. Uh the goal is sort of just to have it be as moral is sort of just to have it be as moral is sort of just to have it be as moral as uh as anyone.

[1:00:28] Um, Um, okay. Yeah. I mean, one one advantage of okay. Yeah. I mean, one one advantage of okay. Yeah. I mean, one one advantage of doing this is that, uh, uh, a lot of doing this is that, uh, uh, a lot of doing this is that, uh, uh, a lot of these moral theories get pretty wacky in these moral theories get pretty wacky in these moral theories get pretty wacky in edge cases. Uh we had a very good edge cases. Uh we had a very good edge cases. Uh we had a very good discussion of the LLMs earlier, so I'm discussion of the LLMs earlier, so I'm discussion of the LLMs earlier, so I'm not going to uh have time to dwell on not going to uh have time to dwell on not going to uh have time to dwell on this, but uh right uh I mean you if this, but uh right uh I mean you if this, but uh right uh I mean you if you've got a Dean's logical rule against you've got a Dean's logical rule against you've got a Dean's logical rule against lying, you might worry about, you know, lying, you might worry about, you know, lying, you might worry about, you know, should I is this is it wrong to lie to should I is this is it wrong to lie to should I is this is it wrong to lie to the murderer at the door who's come the murderer at the door who's come the murderer at the door who's come looking for my friend who's hiding in looking for my friend who's hiding in looking for my friend who's hiding in the basement or um yeah, we've already

[1:01:00] the basement or um yeah, we've already the basement or um yeah, we've already talked about sort of transmitter room talked about sort of transmitter room talked about sort of transmitter room style cases, right? style cases, right? style cases, right? You know, the worry if you're trying if You know, the worry if you're trying if You know, the worry if you're trying if you're sort of setting an explicit moral you're sort of setting an explicit moral you're sort of setting an explicit moral theory for an AI agent to follow is that theory for an AI agent to follow is that theory for an AI agent to follow is that telling, you know, your AI to maximize telling, you know, your AI to maximize telling, you know, your AI to maximize the good could be a little bit like the good could be a little bit like the good could be a little bit like telling it to maximize paperclip telling it to maximize paperclip telling it to maximize paperclip production, right? That it's going to production, right? That it's going to production, right? That it's going to figure out a surprising implication of figure out a surprising implication of figure out a surprising implication of that goal that maybe you were not that goal that maybe you were not that goal that maybe you were not already foreseeing. already foreseeing. already foreseeing. Um, Um, Um, okay. You might think that by contrast, okay. You might think that by contrast, okay. You might think that by contrast, an AI agent aligned to common sense

[1:01:30] an AI agent aligned to common sense an AI agent aligned to common sense morality would behave more predictably morality would behave more predictably morality would behave more predictably because in some sense it's learned how because in some sense it's learned how because in some sense it's learned how to make decisions like like we do. Um to make decisions like like we do. Um to make decisions like like we do. Um but it also might be unpredictable in but it also might be unpredictable in but it also might be unpredictable in these sort of very same edge cases that these sort of very same edge cases that these sort of very same edge cases that we were just worried about, right? Where we were just worried about, right? Where we were just worried about, right? Where maybe common sense runs out, right? Uh maybe common sense runs out, right? Uh maybe common sense runs out, right? Uh you know, would an AI that you've sort you know, would an AI that you've sort you know, would an AI that you've sort of aligned to prevailing moral opinion of aligned to prevailing moral opinion of aligned to prevailing moral opinion decide to kill one person to save a decide to kill one person to save a decide to kill one person to save a million? I don't know. It's right. I

[1:02:01] million? I don't know. It's right. I million? I don't know. It's right. I mean, it's hard to say maybe even what mean, it's hard to say maybe even what mean, it's hard to say maybe even what the common sense view on a question like the common sense view on a question like the common sense view on a question like that is. Um, that is. Um, that is. Um, on the other hand, you might wonder how on the other hand, you might wonder how on the other hand, you might wonder how bad it would be if, you know, in some bad it would be if, you know, in some bad it would be if, you know, in some sense AI were unsure about the same sense AI were unsure about the same sense AI were unsure about the same cases that we're unsure about, right? cases that we're unsure about, right? cases that we're unsure about, right? Uh, if it's just as moral as as a Uh, if it's just as moral as as a Uh, if it's just as moral as as a person, uh, how bad is that in the end? person, uh, how bad is that in the end? person, uh, how bad is that in the end? Okay. Um so just wrapping up sort of Okay. Um so just wrapping up sort of Okay. Um so just wrapping up sort of what we said about value alignments. Uh

[1:02:31] what we said about value alignments. Uh what we said about value alignments. Uh the problem of designing AI agents to do the problem of designing AI agents to do the problem of designing AI agents to do what we really want them to do. Uh this what we really want them to do. Uh this what we really want them to do. Uh this could be a matter of what we intend or could be a matter of what we intend or could be a matter of what we intend or prefer what's in our best interest. Uh prefer what's in our best interest. Uh prefer what's in our best interest. Uh those things uh we saw how those can those things uh we saw how those can those things uh we saw how those can come apart, come apart, come apart, right? It does. Yeah. right? It does. Yeah. right? It does. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Why are we thinking like uh when the &gt;&gt; Why are we thinking like uh when the &gt;&gt; Why are we thinking like uh when the problem arises more than what is morally problem arises more than what is morally problem arises more than what is morally correct, can't we ask the AI if this correct, can't we ask the AI if this correct, can't we ask the AI if this certain questions or something doesn't certain questions or something doesn't certain questions or something doesn't fall into its realm of common sense fall into its realm of common sense fall into its realm of common sense morality. It just chooses not to answer

[1:03:01] morality. It just chooses not to answer morality. It just chooses not to answer or like not act on. or like not act on. or like not act on. &gt;&gt; Uh good. Uh although I so yeah I think &gt;&gt; Uh good. Uh although I so yeah I think &gt;&gt; Uh good. Uh although I so yeah I think that's a yes that's a that's a good that's a yes that's a that's a good that's a yes that's a that's a good impulse. I have this impulse too. impulse. I have this impulse too. impulse. I have this impulse too. Although you might also think sort of Although you might also think sort of Although you might also think sort of like uh we said earlier with uh sort of like uh we said earlier with uh sort of like uh we said earlier with uh sort of designing the default case uh you know designing the default case uh you know designing the default case uh you know in uh put it I mean put it this way to in uh put it I mean put it this way to in uh put it I mean put it this way to not act is one of the is one of the not act is one of the is one of the not act is one of the is one of the choices that's available to you right I choices that's available to you right I choices that's available to you right I mean you're in this you you know an AI mean you're in this you you know an AI mean you're in this you you know an AI or you you know you find yourself in

[1:03:31] or you you know you find yourself in or you you know you find yourself in this fantastical situation where you this fantastical situation where you this fantastical situation where you know if you kill this one person somehow know if you kill this one person somehow know if you kill this one person somehow that's gonna you know save the city of a that's gonna you know save the city of a that's gonna you know save the city of a million from from blowing up or whatever million from from blowing up or whatever million from from blowing up or whatever right I right I right I uh in some sense you can't avoid that uh in some sense you can't avoid that uh in some sense you can't avoid that problem by just saying I'm not going to problem by just saying I'm not going to problem by just saying I'm not going to decide right saying you're not going to decide right saying you're not going to decide right saying you're not going to decide I'm not going to act is taking decide I'm not going to act is taking decide I'm not going to act is taking one of the choices um so one of the choices um so one of the choices um so um yeah um yeah um yeah uh okay so right we do you know we want uh okay so right we do you know we want uh okay so right we do you know we want AI to be sort of aligned with moral

[1:04:02] AI to be sort of aligned with moral AI to be sort of aligned with moral value as well but it's unclear also what value as well but it's unclear also what value as well but it's unclear also what that could look like um these are all that could look like um these are all that could look like um these are all sort of things that uh you need to think sort of things that uh you need to think sort of things that uh you need to think about just to again even to just sort of about just to again even to just sort of about just to again even to just sort of what is the goal that we're pursuing what is the goal that we're pursuing what is the goal that we're pursuing with value alignment right quite a part with value alignment right quite a part with value alignment right quite a part before we even decide how we're going to before we even decide how we're going to before we even decide how we're going to get there get there get there &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; okay &gt;&gt; I have a basic question like before is &gt;&gt; I have a basic question like before is &gt;&gt; I have a basic question like before is um um um &gt;&gt; you know like I'm not very versed in all &gt;&gt; you know like I'm not very versed in all &gt;&gt; you know like I'm not very versed in all the subtle philosophical distinctions the subtle philosophical distinctions the subtle philosophical distinctions but like a lot of morality I mean again

[1:04:35] but like a lot of morality I mean again but like a lot of morality I mean again I know it depends but like it does I know it depends but like it does I know it depends but like it does ultimately have some components about ultimately have some components about ultimately have some components about action, decision, and intention. action, decision, and intention. action, decision, and intention. &gt;&gt; Mh. &gt;&gt; Mh. &gt;&gt; Mh. &gt;&gt; And so like when we talk about like an &gt;&gt; And so like when we talk about like an &gt;&gt; And so like when we talk about like an AI being capable of moral decision AI being capable of moral decision AI being capable of moral decision making, there's like some underlying making, there's like some underlying making, there's like some underlying claims about something having to do with claims about something having to do with claims about something having to do with attention. Yeah. attention. Yeah. attention. Yeah. So like right So like right So like right &gt;&gt; if an AI uh wanted to obtain power like &gt;&gt; if an AI uh wanted to obtain power like &gt;&gt; if an AI uh wanted to obtain power like it started acrewing lots of uh money or

[1:05:05] it started acrewing lots of uh money or it started acrewing lots of uh money or like people who could take actions on like people who could take actions on like people who could take actions on its behalf. its behalf. its behalf. &gt;&gt; Sure. It's very hard to know if like &gt;&gt; Sure. It's very hard to know if like &gt;&gt; Sure. It's very hard to know if like that's moral. Like say say it like that's moral. Like say say it like that's moral. Like say say it like organizes people for like a volunteering organizes people for like a volunteering organizes people for like a volunteering effort. Like that seems fine, effort. Like that seems fine, effort. Like that seems fine, &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; right? &gt;&gt; But like actually it can achieve a &gt;&gt; But like actually it can achieve a &gt;&gt; But like actually it can achieve a variety of different goals using the variety of different goals using the variety of different goals using the same uh ostensible observable, right? same uh ostensible observable, right? same uh ostensible observable, right? Which is like acrewing people or money Which is like acrewing people or money Which is like acrewing people or money thing. And so then like intention thing. And so then like intention thing. And so then like intention seems to become really important in seems to become really important in seems to become really important in order to understand if like what it's order to understand if like what it's order to understand if like what it's doing is actually

[1:05:36] doing is actually doing is actually uh like good or moral. uh like good or moral. uh like good or moral. &gt;&gt; Good. That's right. I mean well so &gt;&gt; Good. That's right. I mean well so &gt;&gt; Good. That's right. I mean well so there's intentional. There's also I mean there's intentional. There's also I mean there's intentional. There's also I mean you know uh eventually its goal you know you know uh eventually its goal you know you know uh eventually its goal you know with with organizing that army of with with organizing that army of with with organizing that army of volunteers is presumably going to become volunteers is presumably going to become volunteers is presumably going to become observable observable observable &gt;&gt; in some way. Right. You want to Yeah. &gt;&gt; in some way. Right. You want to Yeah. &gt;&gt; in some way. Right. You want to Yeah. you're you're worried about how do I you're you're worried about how do I you're you're worried about how do I know in advance whether I it it should know in advance whether I it it should know in advance whether I it it should have this kind of power because it can have this kind of power because it can have this kind of power because it can use in these various ways. Um I mean I use in these various ways. Um I mean I use in these various ways. Um I mean I think that is um

[1:06:07] yeah I mean so so you know part maybe yeah I mean so so you know part maybe bringing us back to this question we had bringing us back to this question we had bringing us back to this question we had a little bit earlier like how bad is it a little bit earlier like how bad is it a little bit earlier like how bad is it really if uh you know an AI agent is really if uh you know an AI agent is really if uh you know an AI agent is sort of in some sense no more or less sort of in some sense no more or less sort of in some sense no more or less moral than the average person, right? Um moral than the average person, right? Um moral than the average person, right? Um well one way in which that might be bad well one way in which that might be bad well one way in which that might be bad is if you know this agent uh has you is if you know this agent uh has you is if you know this agent uh has you know is way more powerful than you know know is way more powerful than you know know is way more powerful than you know your typical person right or has been your typical person right or has been your typical person right or has been put in a position to unilaterally make put in a position to unilaterally make put in a position to unilaterally make you know much more morally consequential you know much more morally consequential you know much more morally consequential decisions than a normal person right

[1:06:37] decisions than a normal person right decisions than a normal person right then you might think okay you know we then you might think okay you know we then you might think okay you know we all make mistakes from time to time but all make mistakes from time to time but all make mistakes from time to time but we've we've put this system in a we've we've put this system in a we've we've put this system in a position where its mistakes have much position where its mistakes have much position where its mistakes have much greater ramifications you know than greater ramifications you know than greater ramifications you know than mine. Um, so, um, sorry. Yeah, that's mine. Um, so, um, sorry. Yeah, that's mine. Um, so, um, sorry. Yeah, that's all I'll just say that's that's a thing. all I'll just say that's that's a thing. all I'll just say that's that's a thing. I think that may be a thing worth I think that may be a thing worth I think that may be a thing worth thinking about anyway is sort of, um, thinking about anyway is sort of, um, thinking about anyway is sort of, um, precisely because you don't you don't precisely because you don't you don't precisely because you don't you don't know where the where this is going. That know where the where this is going. That know where the where this is going. That might be a reason um, yeah, to be might be a reason um, yeah, to be might be a reason um, yeah, to be worried about, you know, power seeking.

[1:07:07] worried about, you know, power seeking. worried about, you know, power seeking. A lot of people are worried about this A lot of people are worried about this A lot of people are worried about this with uh, you know, sufficiently with uh, you know, sufficiently with uh, you know, sufficiently um, intelligent AI systems, right? They um, intelligent AI systems, right? They um, intelligent AI systems, right? They they have their goal to maximize. they have their goal to maximize. they have their goal to maximize. they're going to realize that, well, if they're going to realize that, well, if they're going to realize that, well, if I, you know, increase power, I get more I, you know, increase power, I get more I, you know, increase power, I get more materials, more resources, that's going materials, more resources, that's going materials, more resources, that's going to help me with whatever that goal ends to help me with whatever that goal ends to help me with whatever that goal ends up being. Um, up being. Um, up being. Um, okay, good. Uh, we've, uh, we've gone a okay, good. Uh, we've, uh, we've gone a okay, good. Uh, we've, uh, we've gone a little over, but, I do, uh, I do have little over, but, I do, uh, I do have little over, but, I do, uh, I do have just a couple minutes, uh, things to say just a couple minutes, uh, things to say just a couple minutes, uh, things to say about the SR statements. um

[1:07:39] about the SR statements. um about the SR statements. um uh which really uh has nothing to do uh which really uh has nothing to do uh which really uh has nothing to do with the uh the very interesting with the uh the very interesting with the uh the very interesting uh question about value alignment I uh question about value alignment I uh question about value alignment I think that we were just asking. So uh think that we were just asking. So uh think that we were just asking. So uh your final project requires a one-page your final project requires a one-page your final project requires a one-page ESR statement. The SR being the ethics ESR statement. The SR being the ethics ESR statement. The SR being the ethics and society review. Uh and society review. Uh and society review. Uh essentially uh the ESR is to societal essentially uh the ESR is to societal essentially uh the ESR is to societal risks what like the IRB is to risks to risks what like the IRB is to risks to risks what like the IRB is to risks to human subjects. So uh you know IRB

[1:08:09] human subjects. So uh you know IRB human subjects. So uh you know IRB considers in fact only those risks considers in fact only those risks considers in fact only those risks they're not allowed to consider they're not allowed to consider they're not allowed to consider something like the broader risks of uh something like the broader risks of uh something like the broader risks of uh research or a project once it's kind of research or a project once it's kind of research or a project once it's kind of already out in the world. Um precisely already out in the world. Um precisely already out in the world. Um precisely because of that there's sort of more uh because of that there's sort of more uh because of that there's sort of more uh more and more seeing these kinds of ESR more and more seeing these kinds of ESR more and more seeing these kinds of ESR statements uh being required for grant statements uh being required for grant statements uh being required for grant applications for conference submissions. applications for conference submissions. applications for conference submissions. So, in addition to that being uh a thing So, in addition to that being uh a thing So, in addition to that being uh a thing that uh you're going to want to do that uh you're going to want to do that uh you're going to want to do because it is part of your project in because it is part of your project in because it is part of your project in this class, it's also practice for uh

[1:08:39] this class, it's also practice for uh this class, it's also practice for uh doing a thing you might need to do out doing a thing you might need to do out doing a thing you might need to do out in the world. in the world. in the world. Um okay, you're going to get as part of Um okay, you're going to get as part of Um okay, you're going to get as part of this assignment links to ESR this assignment links to ESR this assignment links to ESR instructions and templates. I suggest instructions and templates. I suggest instructions and templates. I suggest you read those. Uh they'll give you a you read those. Uh they'll give you a you read those. Uh they'll give you a sense of the kind of thing they're sense of the kind of thing they're sense of the kind of thing they're looking for. um this sort of borrowed looking for. um this sort of borrowed looking for. um this sort of borrowed from their template. You know, broadly, from their template. You know, broadly, from their template. You know, broadly, you know, one page you're trying to you know, one page you're trying to you know, one page you're trying to identify um you know, a couple of identify um you know, a couple of identify um you know, a couple of potential ethical risks um that could potential ethical risks um that could potential ethical risks um that could come along with uh your research or

[1:09:10] come along with uh your research or come along with uh your research or project uh if you know if it were project uh if you know if it were project uh if you know if it were deployed in the real world. Um deployed in the real world. Um deployed in the real world. Um and then come up with a a strategy for and then come up with a a strategy for and then come up with a a strategy for for preventing or mitigating those for preventing or mitigating those for preventing or mitigating those risks. So they give like this this kind risks. So they give like this this kind risks. So they give like this this kind of example. You know your tools intended of example. You know your tools intended of example. You know your tools intended to serve users with low vision. Uh but to serve users with low vision. Uh but to serve users with low vision. Uh but if we don't consider their perspectives if we don't consider their perspectives if we don't consider their perspectives then we might alienate them. Okay. then we might alienate them. Okay. then we might alienate them. Okay. Mitigation. What are we going to do to Mitigation. What are we going to do to Mitigation. What are we going to do to avoid that problem? Uh you know okay avoid that problem? Uh you know okay avoid that problem? Uh you know okay something specific right? Okay we'll something specific right? Okay we'll something specific right? Okay we'll hold a series of uh codeesign workshops

[1:09:41] hold a series of uh codeesign workshops hold a series of uh codeesign workshops with stakeholders get their input. Uh with stakeholders get their input. Uh with stakeholders get their input. Uh this is shortened right? I mean this is this is shortened right? I mean this is this is shortened right? I mean this is one sentence each. you're going to want one sentence each. you're going to want one sentence each. you're going to want to go a little bit more uh in depth to go a little bit more uh in depth to go a little bit more uh in depth here. You know, they suggest like here. You know, they suggest like here. You know, they suggest like something like one to two paragraphs something like one to two paragraphs something like one to two paragraphs each for each risk and mitigate each for each risk and mitigate each for each risk and mitigate mitigation effort that you are mitigation effort that you are mitigation effort that you are describing, right? Not looking it's it's describing, right? Not looking it's it's describing, right? Not looking it's it's one page, right? We're not looking for one page, right? We're not looking for one page, right? We're not looking for groundbreaking groundbreaking groundbreaking uh ethics research, right? But you want uh ethics research, right? But you want uh ethics research, right? But you want to show substantive engagement uh with to show substantive engagement uh with to show substantive engagement uh with the ethical risks um that you identify.

[1:10:11] the ethical risks um that you identify. the ethical risks um that you identify. Uh those can be lots of things, you Uh those can be lots of things, you Uh those can be lots of things, you know, sort of common ones that you might know, sort of common ones that you might know, sort of common ones that you might uh want to think about. You know, uh want to think about. You know, uh want to think about. You know, questions about whose interests are questions about whose interests are questions about whose interests are represented in the research, whose represented in the research, whose represented in the research, whose interests might be excluded, right? How interests might be excluded, right? How interests might be excluded, right? How you might go about trying to take um you might go about trying to take um you might go about trying to take um those excluded interests into account. those excluded interests into account. those excluded interests into account. Um right, who who might benefit or be Um right, who who might benefit or be Um right, who who might benefit or be harmed uh by the success of it, right? harmed uh by the success of it, right? harmed uh by the success of it, right? You might think about effect on privacy. You might think about effect on privacy. You might think about effect on privacy. You might think about sort of misuse or You might think about sort of misuse or You might think about sort of misuse or user error, right? Um how could uh you

[1:10:44] user error, right? Um how could uh you user error, right? Um how could uh you know bad actors misuse the um know bad actors misuse the um know bad actors misuse the um uh the research, right? How could users uh the research, right? How could users uh the research, right? How could users uh accidentally misapply it uh in uh accidentally misapply it uh in uh accidentally misapply it uh in harmful ways?
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=-kdR_7dCcyI
