# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Voting

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=1QpNZXL35NM
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:13:22 · Words: 40336
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/1QpNZXL35NM.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=1QpNZXL35NM

## Transcript
[0:09] Thanks so much. Uh, hi everybody. Um, my name is Colin McIll. Um, I've been uh working on an open source uh uh platform uh for about 13 years called Polus. And uh so I'll briefly um give a a background um to myself and then the the project uh and then uh go through some of the some of the recent stuff that's um that's happened. Um things like uh uh you know grant program and open AAI and uh community notes on Twitter which is based on bullets. Um so there's some exciting uh exciting applications of an

[0:40] exciting uh exciting applications of an underlying methodology um and uh and potential connections um that we can make. So um so first of all I'll say um I uh I live in San Francisco. Um I my background is in international relations and political science from uh from undergrad. Um and then I um I decided uh um to go on um into uh into startups. Um and Polus was developed as a for-profit pro-social startup between 2012 and 2016

[1:12] pro-social startup between 2012 and 2016 when we open sourced. Uh the technology open source in 2016 and then uh the for-profit um wound down and transitioned into a nonprofit in 2019. And so since then um I kind of transitioned from CEO of a for-profit to president of a nonprofit. Uh um and so if anyone's interested in like nonprofit technology, I'm also kind of happy to talk about and answer questions about that since it's a really interesting model. Things like Wikipedia or Khan Academy or you know more recently like Signal um which are open source

[1:42] Signal um which are open source nonprofit tech uh and kind of how um how the the funding and uh and considerations around that um that work in case that's an interesting uh an interesting uh dimension. Um I'll say that the project uh you know has um has some some uh um you know users around the world that are deployers as well. So the platform that I'll describe is uh um is deployed by the national government United Kingdom uh Finland, Singapore, Taiwan uh and Amsterdam, Netherlands and

[2:12] Taiwan uh and Amsterdam, Netherlands and others. Um and then there's a whole bunch of like hobbyists like you know installations as well. uh and uh um and the uh uh and then you know with that I think I'll uh I'll dive in. Um so uh uh I'm going to focus um as per kind of conversations with semi and and uh and students um on the uh the paper uh that we wrote with entropic um last last year um which was uh which was on opportunities and risks uh for you know

[2:42] opportunities and risks uh for you know using large language models with polus in in this context you know what is the what does the new tech um have to offer and what are the risks using it in this in this kind of a context so I'm going to uh to spend most of my time kind talking about what we're building and how methodologically. Um and uh and that's currently also kind of loaded up in in context for me as well. So I'm excited to talk about it. Um so okay so briefly um so so what is uh what is PS? So I'll I'll briefly say um for terminology during the talk uh p.is is

[3:12] terminology during the talk uh p.is is like the website you can go to p.isome or p.is it will redirect you there and that's like the you can log in use it for free um and uh and it's a site that you know is that host the main instance of the technology um there's also a repo which is people also call pus it's just like the tech itself that people fork um there's a methodology which is in a paper people also call that polus but really like that's uh you know um more metrics and methods that underpin and underly it um and then there's also kind of like a community and you know usage and uh and users and so um I think that

[3:44] and uh and users and so um I think that generally poll is kind refers to that zone of stuff. Um, but it's a little bit uh a little bit confusing for open source tech sometimes because there's courses and stuff like that. Okay. So, the most concrete thing I can show you all if you haven't seen it is that uh that Polus is a system where um people can submit statements and those statements are shown randomly one at a time to other users uh who can agree to pass on them. that um that process uh creates a um you know a sparse matrix which we'll come back to and kind of

[4:14] which we'll come back to and kind of like what what we do with that and why. Um but basically this uh um it it's not not driven around replies. Um everything that people submit is kind of an atomic intended to be an atomic statement which goes into a pool and then uh the um uh uh when people uh uh uh agree to disagree or pass on statements submitted by others, it's um it's a uh it's greedy. It'll take any amount of voting that people do. Uh and so the kind of intuition for this right off the bat is like a an emergent survey. So it's like

[4:44] like a an emergent survey. So it's like a survey created by the people taking it. Um something closer towards Reddit in that you know that's like an upote site, but something a little bit more formal. um in that you know someone will start a conversation with a population and it can be used in a random sample and both can use lots of like random sample formal you know uh formal sampling around the world. Okay. The idea is to um make meaning of perspectives at scale. Uh the inspiration was uh out of occupy wall street and free movement. um in the uh uh during the Arab Spring uh social

[5:14] uh during the Arab Spring uh social media uh motivated people um uh to participate in political activities. But um you know the platforms that like Twitter while they were useful for mobilization um faced particular constraints in um uh in coherent conversations that allowed people to um write collective documents or things like that find find each other. specifically um in Occupy, you know, a common thing for individuals was to kind

[5:44] common thing for individuals was to kind of like uh in the movement um in in the the in in the dialogue around it um was to kind of say, well, this is what it's about. You know, this is what it's about. And and the assertion by each individual that they were kind of speaking for everyone. Um you know, they're right about some of it uh but not about all of it and then being kind of fragmented and it was difficult to uh uh produce demands. the idea of kind of like systems that got more coherent the more people interacted were like really interesting. Um and so you know the the concept uh back in in 2012 was

[6:16] concept uh back in in in in 2012 was like okay well what would be amable like what what would we what data would we want to gather um what algorithms would we would we apply a long story short um about that is that you know it's it's a sparse matrix um with PCA and then we look at uh we look across the groups for what groups had in common so it's pretty simple you know like asender engine kind of math um but it's also stuff that no no no deep learning Um but also uh it is a um a system that we kind of like set and forget like it it can be out there

[6:47] and forget like it it can be out there uh uh used by um facilitators in the field um without concern that PCA or Canadians are going to do anything crazy. crazy. crazy. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; just to clarify on the technology itself. So it's a &gt;&gt; uh people get to make comments. You get this. Okay. You want to go into the detail I guess. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um yes. Uh uh but but but yes that's right. So, so if we think about like um you know each statement that people submit is a feature and then each uh um each each participant is a row and the row is a

[7:18] participant is a row and the row is a voting record. uh then the raw data looks like you know a series of either it's it's a null if they didn't see it otherwise it's a one for agree a negative one for disagree or zero for pass and this is immunable to doing PCA and then K means on to to identify patterns patterns patterns &gt;&gt; and and what you want to cluster are the people I guess here right so &gt;&gt; that's correct yeah you're clustering people uh and then you kind of find like you know something you find statements that differentiate those people uh and then that sets of comments form

[7:48] then that sets of comments form something like a a worldview that's different than the others if there's a uh uh if it's differentiable statements. That's right. Um so uh and then I can I can say um yeah like basically like the the um the the the the heruristic here um for I guess it's easier yet. So basically you can say like okay you know given a um given that we see groups um

[8:19] given a um given that we see groups um what has a uh what statements um are common among um among people who think differently. And so this metric is really the the what the paper um uh uh what the paper we published um uh you know put forward and this was implemented in the codebase kind of you know back in 20 2013. Um and this became the foundation for the the the conversation with Twitter too about how to operationalize that

[8:49] too about how to operationalize that concept to them for community notes. The idea is like okay if you have um if you have a diversity of opinion uh can you use that to kind of like recover signal about you know where uh um where interesting consensus might be. So the um the consensus in the context of discord um is kind of like what this equation was which was really uh um which is really excited to see it um find uh find more grounding in misinformation. misinformation. misinformation. &gt;&gt; Okay. Um &gt;&gt; another quick question. So knowing from

[9:21] &gt;&gt; another quick question. So knowing from other conversations so context you said something about the sort of PCA and K means uh I'm interpreting them as interpretable enough and trustworthy enough that they're not risks in the platform. Are you planning to go a bit deeper into that? If not I wonder if I can engage you in that question a bit more. If you're going to go more into it we can push &gt;&gt; No, no, please go ahead. Let's let we should pause there. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Okay. So I guess what I understand that you're stating is a uh robustness claim

[9:53] you're stating is a uh robustness claim maybe. So like how good is K means for representation learning given the voting matrix? How good is K means plus clustering as a trustworthy way of getting at consensus or groups of people that are similar that look like consensus? And I guess the counter this is what are the risks of say an adversary trying to break this voting mechanism by attacking the underlying infrastructure. And I actually bring this up because you know in the class we've gone through voting and its

[10:24] we've gone through voting and its robustness in some detail. So we're aware of like some of the ways that v voting can be non-ro. &gt;&gt; Right. Could you say I guess I also don't share your strong optimism uh for like robustness and I guess you know this because we've talked about this before but I wonder if you could say a bit more about uh I think I interpret the the comment about sort of confidence in K means and PCA mostly from the fact that there sort of classic reasonably

[10:54] that there sort of classic reasonably well understood algorithms that people who are right if they're not technical but maybe aware if they're not technical know consider it a known own hats and that's where the confidence is coming from not from specifically looking at robustness and attacking &gt;&gt; uh consensus via those mechanisms. Is that accurate? I wonder if you speak a bit to that. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, I'm happy to talk about that. So um okay I would say that um

[11:27] has been used in adversarial circumstances at nation scale and one um one example one specific example of that um that I can point to would be the usage uh in Uber in Taiwan. Um and so I'll just grab that really quickly. So um um um I think it's actually hold on it's down it's down here. So um so this article covers uh and this is the highest most highly covered case study because there was an adversarial attempt by Uber to gain it um by sending all their drivers to the conversation. The question was whether Uber should be legal and how and

[11:58] whether Uber should be legal and how and there's challenges with taxi drivers. Um one of the things that the the Taiwanese government had done at the time with the system was to um and they opened it up to the entire country. It was a national national system. um if there's an expectation that you know that people come and interact well they have like a very small surface area to interact with so they can submit a statement but if the moderators don't let them in that's a no op um so so so first the mods are in control of that so then basically the

[12:29] in control of that so then basically the surface area is okay you know if you're if you're an adversarial actor um then you can agree disagree or pass on um on statements this is the surface area you have for gaming now the Um the the the PCA and C means are I would say like uh uh you know what you would be trying you would be trying to gain that from the uh from the voting. Um and what we saw was basically like repeatedly repeatedly repeatedly the naive thing to do was to send people that you wanted but that actually just

[12:59] that you wanted but that actually just it might have created a larger group like it might have skewed the sample. Um but it was kind of like one one group getting larger, not necessarily, you know, uh uh so so it was kind of naturally immune to the first thing which was gating, right? Because it just it makes one group larger. Um but obviously if you're going to uh uh if you're going to build bots, um you know, previously that might have been harder because the uh um but of course now it's easier. Now, it's it's off the shelf for

[13:29] Now, it's it's off the shelf for Enthropic to build to build a bot. Um, and have it click around and then say, "Well, I would like you to vote like this and try to be consistent even if you see a new statement that we haven't seen yet. Here's old statements. Here's how I'd like you to vote on those." Um, and you could say create three different clusters that really don't exist at all uh to minimize the existing clusters. And I think that basically is an arms race that just gets to identity. Uh, and then the question is what is the sample and how do we know? um which is is something that we punt on because poll

[13:59] something that we punt on because poll is a tool that can be used with any sample and we're intentionally agnostic about it. And so I think that eventually um you know uh eventually the question really gets down to the sample. Um and I think that like the most promising stuff there is maybe in um in the uh uh like the ZK like anonymous you know identify anonymous but verified identity space. I keep expecting that someone is going to do something really substantial in that space. There seems like there's there are some some stuff like um remote passport um there there's some

[14:30] passport um there there's some experiments like uh um oh uh freedom tool tool tool um there are some experiments um that uh uh that I have seen um that are uh uh advertising advertising advertising um that they uh um that they're doing anonymous voting with with like ZK passport like verification like within a and they've run like referendums in Russia with this tech and they're they're claiming that the case studies have been run. I think it's it's stuff

[15:00] have been run. I think it's it's stuff like this that will be um uh will probably be another layer and it just won't be a part of our like it'll be it'll be something that we might integrate with like eventually but I don't think there's a clear winner yet um for us to do that. So that would be the that would be the first part of my answer is that is that an okay start? &gt;&gt; It is yeah helpful. Uh so &gt;&gt; I'm interpreting that as right now the risk doesn't like there are no examples where this has caused you know catastrophic failure and the path forward likely might be other technologies that just makes

[15:31] technologies that just makes verification. So individual sampling much richer and more accurate. &gt;&gt; So you don't have to deal necessarily with the robustness of the voting mechanism itself because you'll know for sure that it's at least it's real people. Now whether or not those real people are colluding is a different &gt;&gt; Right. Right. Right. So if you and if they did collude you know like the question then is okay well how different are um so so I think an open area of research would be like okay if we if we think that we have some good conversations and we think we have like

[16:01] conversations and we think we have like a sense of of like let's say like variance within a group like like how much if if we're going to cluster something or call it a group how much variance is there inside of that. We don't have currently any checks or metrics or methods to say you know this group looks synthetic because they're they're all voting like I mean well certainly we could say like a hundred people have exactly the same vote record right so this would be a simple thing we could do if we were going to make it more chaotic than that and assume that it was an LLM or that LLM you know vote differently than humans do where they vote tighter that would be a really

[16:31] vote tighter that would be a really different way to approach it. So I think that that's that that area is something we have not done but could uh and uh and and is I think an open area as to what it would look like to approach that problem. problem. problem. &gt;&gt; Thank you. &gt;&gt; Absolutely. &gt;&gt; Okay. Um &gt;&gt; yes quick follow up just to push on that angle a little more. So you mentioned now that if you do have like autonomous agents, you could conceive a world where I don't know that you can adversarily

[17:01] I don't know that you can adversarily try to create like I guess coding what you said like say three different clusters that like don't exist or um there's clearly some I guess like some vague sense of like why this might be bad because it's like disrupting what the actual opinion gathering mechanism is. But do you have some sense of like what a concrete adversarial objective there might look like? So if I'm trying to create these three clusters, what am I trying to optimize for or like what is my objective here? &gt;&gt; Great great question. Okay, so let's assume um let's use a concrete example.

[17:31] assume um let's use a concrete example. Um this is a policy innovation unit in the United Kingdom called Policy Lab. They have a collective intelligence unit um that they've that they've uh put together. Um the goal of these uh policy innovation units is usually to say we're going to innovate some with some new method like using polls to gather opinion data from a population and we're going to use that for policy. Then they'll say like okay we're within the government but we're kind of a third party. Which minister is the most progressive and wants to do something new? Who has a mandate right now? Who has the will? And then they'll go

[18:01] has the will? And then they'll go they'll go do something like in this case it was something uh ecologically related. Usually it's going to be something that's uh uh like like cross stakeholder. So you're going to have like fishermen and people in in in tourism and and people in industry or transportation or cit local citizens or whatever. So in this case, this is this case in the UK about sebass regulation uh and they talked to you know uh uh some some dozens of people in ethnography and they scale up to thousands of people. Well, if this was a nation scale sample and it was also open, um then if if somebody if there

[18:31] open, um then if if somebody if there was an industry player uh who was in fisheries who was motivated, they could um let's say that they had an economic interest in skewing a national um a national a dial policy dialogue. They could add uh let's say uh three very distinct worldviews and personalities of synthetic citizens that don't exist um but are very concerned about any any kind of regulation on their livelihood or anything like that and they could be way more dogmatic. You could add like basically effectively you

[19:01] could add like basically effectively you could add synthetic extremist groups that would uh would would um push the narrative of the uh of the economically interested player like in Uber. It could be the case that you know the citizens weren't the groups for instance in Uber there was an economically two economically interested groups in the Uber drivers and the taxi drivers the citizens were kind of mixed in there um and uh uh in in in this case we could imagine that there were actually like two other clusters that were like cluster of groups that were emerging or maybe there was a group of academic

[19:31] maybe there was a group of academic experts that were or economists that were talking about you know uh um the the outcomes in other countries but it was also misinformation. um it would be really confusing to untangle um which users or opinions or which experts were real or which which weren't which were the groups that were you know uh uh grounded in um in in in the country and which were just synthetic actors of the uh and so I would say an economic interest in a nation's cup of liberation would be would be would be something that you would want to be careful about. &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Thank you. Yeah, I think

[20:02] &gt;&gt; Gotcha. Thank you. Yeah, I think synthetic experts is is probably the most dangerous thing because you you're saying like, you know, actually, you know, there's like there's like 200 economists in this group who all are concerned about, you know, the impact of of of any regulation on X, Y, or Z thing and they're saying our transportation system is going to collapse within 3 months. Well, if there are actually 200 academics saying that, that's material. If there are not, then it may be hard to untangle. And I think that that's the uh I think that that's the the problem with LLM is that they can produce, you know, if they produce something that sounds

[20:32] if they produce something that sounds incredibly like academic or they can they can they can draw on, you know, theories and and and draw on projections or like lots of documents, but they can kind of like actually even ground themselves in some adversarial case and effectively build up if if an agent or a series of agents could build up effectively like a legal case level grounded opposition. um that that was that was completely skewed towards uh towards a financial actor. That that's you know that's a pretty confusing thing to unwind uh for for a public servant

[21:02] to unwind uh for for a public servant who was just trying to go out and basically you know get a lay of the land which is kind of what the built for. Um I think we can imagine pretty sophisticated if if this gains more and more power I think we can anticipate more and more sophisticated opposition. Um, hi. I'm confused a little bit and hopefully we can go back into the main presentation because like roughly you're suggesting something that we haven't quite seen yet, which is that like people are proposing the questions. So like they could propose a whole bunch of questions that establish their expertise, right? They have objective

[21:32] expertise, right? They have objective answers and then filter out everyone who doesn't have expertise by proposing 50 questions that only an expert can ask. um but I don't quite understand how questions emerge naturally in the platform. So I'm curious to see more detailed descriptions of the examples that do exist. &gt;&gt; Yeah, great great question. So um I'm going to go to a uh let's see grab a report here. Uh I think this is going to be Oh, just a second. This is a pre-production.

[22:10] &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, um I I'll pull up uh I I'll pull this up for us. Um this is a conversation that was run in the uh in the San Islands. Um and uh this is like a 13,000 person uh county uh with four islands in Washington state and the uh the issue is a landbank issue. Uh and so um the uh the the the conversation centered around um uh whether or not the land bank should continue to conserve more and more land because this is a public institution buying up um real

[22:40] public institution buying up um real estate to keep it rural and agrarian. So the conversation started with a prompt which is basically like you know uh um even just as general as uh um you know as uh uh we're going to discuss the land bank. what are your thoughts and feelings on it? You know, where is it? Where should it go? What's what's the problem? What's the good stuff? Uh and then people are going to submit statements. And so if we go down here to like the uh the statements that were submitted um we can see so so like top level stats there's some hundreds of

[23:10] level stats there's some hundreds of people um that are uh this is like you know some some single digit percentage of the county um submitted about 300 statements cast and tens of thousands of the votes. So we can see that if we sort by for instance um the the metric of like what did people agree with across groups um you know uh people generally agreed between groups very strongly that um having access uh to the land that's preserved that's that's conserved by the

[23:40] preserved that's that's conserved by the public institution is compatible with preserving the natural habitat. We don't need to ban people from visiting and that's not an issue under consideration. That's not what we're discussing. There are things that were really controversial uh in the state in the conversation and I'll go up here and use the peace form. Uh things that had uh more barrier um more loading on the PCA out to the right. Um and the question about whether or not like should it should it keep going um uh was was was controversial. Um so you know is it reducing the land available in the island for development and and for and

[24:11] island for development and and for and for residents. Um so what's what's controversial uh then you know between the groups we can also see and we can look at the statements that are and these are statements that were submitted by by people who were participating and so it's it's a way for people to express their opinion on an issue uh and then for everyone else to kind of say you know have a say on what everyone else said. Not everybody not everybody submits a statement um but but everybody has an opportunity to vote. Uh does that does that help at least with the the the structure that like a general prompt and then what's coming back is not a question but actually a whole bunch of responses to the prompt.

[24:41] responses to the prompt. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think so. So people can submit a statement and then people are saying like if they agree with it or not. &gt;&gt; Correct. So they're correct. So the way that the system works is that it uh um is that people will submit a statement like like that like saying you know the land bank's buying a property it should stop because it's reducing the amount of property available to to to to residents to to to to live on and to buy. Um and other people have that will go out semi-randomly to others. They'll agree

[25:12] semi-randomly to others. They'll agree to agree and pass on it. Uh and then uh and then that statement forms part of other people's voting record. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. Um yeah, and what results from that then is like a a series of um a series of voting records per participant as rows um where each column has a uh um each column is a feature and a statement. And that's that's what that's what the uh that's that's what the data set looks like. Uh and then the metrics are

[25:44] like. Uh and then the metrics are computed per um uh uh you know kind of like looking for clusters. Um, okay. Uh, we can, um, hopefully like as we go too and look at some of the features and ways it's been used, we'll, um, we'll kind of, uh, uh, uh, we'll be back on that, too. &gt;&gt; Okay. So I wanted to um I wanted to to just skip forward to make sure that we have an opportunity to cover um that uh we we wrote a paper with Anthropic last year um covering some of the uh uh the

[26:14] year um covering some of the uh uh the conversations to say okay um if we um uh okay if we have a um a conversation that let me flip over here see what kinds of tasks can the LLM um uh can the LLM perform within a poll conversation uh and how well um and how well will it will it um will it perform? So we looked at a number of things like

[26:44] So we looked at a number of things like moderation um summarization and vote prediction and uh one of the the most promising results earlier on that we're still working on now um shipped uh it was summarization and the idea a question of whether or not we can um ground uh uh ground a summary in statements. Um we're getting closer and closer to shipping that and I'm happy to talk about some of the details around how how it is we're going about that. Um but we're currently looking at like clause level um rounding in the uh uh so

[27:14] clause level um rounding in the uh uh so so it doesn't really get to go past you know a handful of words without um without grounding it somewhere in the in the data. Um we also looked at uh uh vote prediction uh and uh and and and whether or not um if the LLM saw more and more uh um more and more statements in votes by participants whether or not it could predict the next one. was uh it was is quite scarily good at uh at at at um uh at uh predicting people's votes. Uh I think this is a particular surface area

[27:45] think this is a particular surface area for risk. Um because obviously if um if it's very good at predicting votes then there's there's some uh considerable amount of room for um you know for uh uh both for actors to build um good uh um like synthetic voters. Uh but also I think for uh for people to mistake the systems uh for voters and and and to say okay well they they are good enough at representing people. um we can use an LLM to kind of like you know replace

[28:15] LLM to kind of like you know replace lazily replace uh um people in social research uh and and and further kind of intermediate um the public from from from institutions um and that's uh uh that that's something that is uh is a risk that was discussed in the uh in the paper as well um yeah &gt;&gt; could you say a bit more so one just pure methodology is this like imprompting so you sort of you give it examples and context and you ask it to predict next one is that the actual implementation or is there something

[28:45] implementation or is there something more sophisticated than that? Yeah, it it it is it's um it is basically like you know giving it giving it more and more uh statements progressively more and then graphing like okay how accurate was it at saying like you know I predict you know the vote would be given this voting record the vote would be &gt;&gt; I see agree agreed to pass and then as you give it more of the participants vote history it gets better at uh uh at predicting what the uh what the next vote would be. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Could I understand the risk a bit

[29:16] &gt;&gt; Yeah. Could I understand the risk a bit more as well? So um in some sense if you have a good predictor of people's preferences that seems a net win for correctly capturing uh people's people's preferences but I guess there's also a risk of like missing something or particular issues where people the prediction differs significantly from the truth because people are more complicated than the models. Could you say a bit on what you're worried about? I think that the people being more complicated in the models is is one thing. I think

[29:46] models is is is is one thing. I think that the the this case was a kind of like weekend hack project like a system prompt like pretend you're a citizen of Romania and the PM is talking to you, respond as if you were to &gt;&gt; I see &gt;&gt; immediately like like worse stereotypical people, right? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Really poor implementation, non-rigorous kind of stuff. But then then then if if people believe that it's that good um ends up out in in in public institutions but in in short order

[30:17] institutions but in in short order basically. basically. basically. &gt;&gt; Okay. I can see that. okay. So uh we we um we found that uh uh you know um back in 2023 um cloud was quite good

[30:47] um back in 2023 um cloud was quite good at doing topic modeling um from the uh uh from from from the reports uh and uh um also being able to compare um so we we tested it on basic data analysis tasks and because polls is a lot of open data and open methods um it's interesting to kind of have it as an experimental anthropic was interested in part because there's a there's a an experimental benchmark in the open data and open code um to for for a data analysis task. So we've um we've kind of taken this in advance further. Yeah.

[31:17] taken this in advance further. Yeah. Right. Right. Right. &gt;&gt; So I understand this top modeling as an alternative to the PCA plus clustering. So it just does it in context as opposed to going through &gt;&gt; it does it in context. That's exactly right. So so it does so you'll notice that it does have group zero and group one. Like it does have the groups. It does have the clusters. Um but it does not uh uh so it would look at the the the it basically would be after the PCA and C means and it would use that as a a statistical statistical statistical &gt;&gt; you know um uh uh step that it had um to

[31:50] &gt;&gt; you know um uh uh step that it had um to then build on top of &gt;&gt; and that that's that's that's a lot of what we're looking at is basically you know formal ways of feeding in um uh the the in a structured way to the to the prompt. um statistical, you know, uh outputs of previous steps. Uh and and then to have it basically say, okay, you can you can, you know, we're not asking the LLM to do very much except the narrative bit and and then if it if it does do something narratively, it has to

[32:20] does do something narratively, it has to ground it, you know, immediately before it moves on. Um so that so that there's like a containment, you know, unit of hallucination basically. Uh that's that's like a one of the concepts. I can say a lot more about that, but that's uh but in terms of like actually building something, if anyone's seen Harvey um the the little lawyer from uh from OpenAI, there's a lot of good stuff. Um OpenAI's investment in them and and very close working with them, you know, led to some very good kind of podcast after about how they built um to reduce hallucinations and like get extra tasks in in in the legal field

[32:51] in in in the legal field operationalized. Uh, and there's a lot of really good um, work that they did in terms of like breaking things down to subtasks, having custom data per prompt, uh, and then and then, you know, using that to kind of drive down hallucinations. Um, and but but yes, the the topic analysis step is just look at all the comments and then group things as you would. Um, and and uh, and and it seems fairly competent at that task, you know, without um without going much further.

[33:24] Um okay so um grab okay so um I um I'll say briefly um that you know some of the contexts uh that poll has been used in um in terms of like sampling this is an example in tim this is run by UNP um and uh the survey methodology you know it said like there's basically like you get into a vehicle and then um you know go around the the the uh and then you know stop every nth person and ask them if they'll you know

[33:55] person and ask them if they'll you know ride for for a few blocks and then answer some questions and input their statements and they used that to seed a conversation and there are politicians in the tuk tuk. So they're like basically is there's connection to power. Um and then that was a kind of a method of getting like an emergent sample of text, an emergent sample of votes and then using that you know stage one and then stage two was then you know more random sampling um in in uh in other digital um uh digital processes. Um and they also did this in Pakistan and Bhutan um and uh and there were

[34:25] and Bhutan um and uh and there were there were some tens of thousands of people that participated across it. Um, and that's uh uh that that one was um that was UNP. Um, and uh let's see. Um, we uh I would also say um uh another interesting interesting interesting um uh group is in Finland called Satra. Uh and they're another basically um publicly funded institution that uh is in in engaged in policy innovation. Um

[34:56] in in engaged in policy innovation. Um and they have a uh uh um they have some you know large scale uh conversations around policy areas um and the uh um and they're they're like I think and and this was this was last year um they ran like 18,000 people um and they they do them regularly at nation scale and and have their own have their own instance and deployment um and so that that offers a few different like views of kind of large scale large scale some open some closed

[35:26] open some closed um and and focus on different topics, but all basically trying to do some like, you know, uh um ethnographic research on on on on a population. Um so voting so you know uh I guess we can consider in the discussion whether you know how close we think that is to voting uh or whether we think that's you know like whether or or or if it's a survey etc etc. But um you know uh um at any rate uh the goal is is is is is scaling up. Um let me

[35:58] is is is scaling up. Um let me let me say also um I want I want to make sure I get to some some large large recent stuff. Um de mind uh just uh dropped a paper um let me uh very recently um called AI can help um humans find common ground with democratic liberation. um they cite in their uh in their intro um as inspiration the uh the anthropic paper. We presented them the anthropic

[36:28] paper. We presented them the anthropic paper in in uh in July of 2023 last year. Um, and what they're looking at is basically like, okay, can we have the LLM um help a group to um uh to to write a collective statement of themselves and can we get higher and higher approval on that uh um on that statement? What we're looking for is uh um is a um you know a group which is represent a state which

[36:59] group which is represent a state which representative of like and they're trying to get above legislative majority of the group and they're looking at the context like citizens assembly where the facilitator might be writing the group statement and they're like can we get the LLM to write it instead? Do people prefer the LLM to the human? Um they have you know their their assertion in the paper is we do uh like the LLM better than the uh better than the human um and that they uh um and that that the these statements are are are particularly good. Um I would say that you know um from reading it I think the statements are are are fantastic um and

[37:31] statements are are are fantastic um and uh uh you know and they had a really good result actually and they were super interesting. Um so uh this work is done by um Mikil Ber who um and uh uh and Chris Somerfield over in UK but backer is still working on it. So summerfield and he's at MIT uh uh now he's moved on from MIT to continue this work but he's still actually he's like he's gotten down to part time at MIT this is very active work um that they're that they're pushing forward um out of MIT's center

[38:01] pushing forward um out of MIT's center for communication with uh which is Deb Roy um and over over MIT um I will also uh also mention um &gt;&gt; question what is for the work you're doing one could imagine this being like the synthesis engine wants you to find the groups maybe is that &gt;&gt; absolutely absolutely so polus um you know that that's absolutely right so so polus uh um you know always had a

[38:32] polus uh um you know always had a concept that it would it would visualize the clusters and then show them back to people and what we were always the way that we were kind of labeling the groups was to say okay here's a here you know here's a cluster and then here's a set of statements that have voting patterns. And so what we're what we've always asked in the software of the participant is to say you must reconstruct something in your head about what the world view of a cluster is given a set of statements and the differentiated voting patterns. And that is a a relatively

[39:03] patterns. And that is a a relatively intensive highly task that requires high numerance um and compare and comparison and then also it changes over time. So you have to continue to to to burn those calories to do it. So the the idea here is like okay Polus has has has two things. It has a small snapshot per cluster differentiation here where you've got like a consensus and you've got a um and you've got like a uh um and you've got a set of states. Um and then

[39:34] you've got a set of states. Um and then on the other hand, you've got a um uh you've got a report which is attempting to kind of give you like more of an overview um which is more data driven and more whole in total. And those are two really different goals. One is kind of for the facilitator of data scientist. the other sort of and the idea with with with with what deep mind did science is is absolutely closer to this intention to say like we would like to show you yourself back to you and say do you think you know that you

[40:05] do you think you know that you that you um and we have um I'll say that we have a GitHub issue up um which is under discussion where we we do use the LLM like hover machine did and there's a little bit of like rating interface here um and we we excited to run these tests over time to say like, okay, you know, if you show a statement back, if you show a collective statement back to people um and we use 01 to generate a prompt and and uh uh uh here um and 40 to do the work basically like could you

[40:37] to do the work basically like could you um could you have people rate this uh and then um and and then you know they get to rate their own statement under group informed consensus. uh and that if you see high higher and higher ratings on that you get excited. Obviously there's some problems like well if the people are voting over time when do they rate these statements if they rate them and the clusters change how do you manage that and it's always been one of the problems with methodology is the votes come in over time and comments come in over time it's immersion it grows so how does then any collective

[41:07] grows so how does then any collective statement relate to uh the underlying data at what stage would you do it um and that you know I think that's like a an interesting um an interesting problem I don't think it's impossible I think it's tricky um you know it might that you're having. Anyway, I without getting further into it, there's a um a pretty extensive um uh there's a pretty extensive discussion here um from a data a group that um just ran a uh another large conversation they had run before um in um around a site in uh in Uruguay

[41:40] um in um around a site in uh in Uruguay and Urguay National University regularly runs data and conversations. Um and so this is uh um the the kind of meat of the discussion is here where it's like how how might this be approached to how might we gather the data u and how might we kind of like operationalize uh this paper um for the like rating stuff um okay so uh I'll briefly say also um last year openai um was interested in uh we say

[42:13] openai um was interested in uh we say had a level mapping human values to um to to to have that be an input to completions. uh they want to complete more and more um in uh uh uh um uh results in more and more uh uh contexts and and there's different values and so how how different um you know a brief way of explaining this it was a million dollar grant program they gave away $10,000 grants and I advised them like you know how where advising teams um the

[42:43] you know how where advising teams um the uh one way to think of it is like okay if you have horror authors um you know who who are uh um we might differentiate a horror author from like a you know a grade schooler and if we have like very gory completions we might we want to show it to one and not the other. This is a toy example but like you know the resolving like you know it will refuse to write a poem about Trump but it will write a limick about Biden and things like that. you know that this this kind of stuff in in alignment has to do with human values. Um and you know cynically

[43:14] human values. Um and you know cynically um moving risk away from the organization into some legitimate third party system um would be desirable if it was possible uh for the kind of decision around you know how how how could it be what what process would we decide um whether something was was aligned in some in some categories of of of alignment. Um, and so the uh the results from this were 10 um 10 different uh uh uh open source projects that came out of it um that are all up on the web. Uh and

[43:44] it um that are all up on the web. Uh and um and also a uh some prototype uh um of what it might look like to do polls entirely as chat where you were just kind of talking to to a model and it was recording open text and then and then recording modes as you went and kind of summarizing you as it went which I still think is like a very relaxed way to consider interacting with the software in the future. Um especially because in the realm of like agent elicitation, you're going to be able to ask the um uh you're going to be able to ask the model um

[44:15] um um uh like what how do you say this? um we would be able to ask the model um uh you know to to to um to follow up with people to get the next stage of of level of detail after they submit a statement. Um and and I think that's something that's particularly uh a particularly interesting area. Um Peter Koy wrote about this about like you know the relationship between okay like could you have better technology policy um with you know with like like with Uber

[44:46] with you know with like like with Uber and if you did would that be interesting to you know like uh could could better tech help with better tech policy? Uh is that a um you know is that is that a good loop? Um and uh it was a it was a a cool article. Um and Anthropic also did something with with with Polus. Um they uh um they did a a project where they tried to look at Claude's constitution um using uh uh um using a random sample um and uh uh in in

[45:17] using a random sample um and uh uh in in polls um about you know values and I think it did kind of turn out that everybody was interested in everything. There wasn't a lot of disagreement like yes you should do that yes you should do that too yes I should do that yes I should do that too. Uh so I think like overall um you know maybe not the most promising result for this one but but interesting that they did the experiment and uh and it is out there um there was uh it was written up um it was written up by Kevin Roose uh uh uh last year or earlier I think that one earlier this year. Um, one uh uh one notable thing to

[45:50] year. Um, one uh uh one notable thing to uh uh uh to cover um uh and this is a pretty funny screenshot from uh uh Rishi explaining community notes back to Elon Musk which was really strange and funny. Um the uh uh the work um with Twitter began in 2021. Um and Apple Bomb and Peter Pomeran wrote an article suggesting that Twitter use polls uh for misinformation. Um and they did that. Um and they did uh um they we reached out uh we started talking to them in in

[46:21] uh we started talking to them in in 2022, early 2022. Um and they had had they basically um you know uh um the bird watch um paper sites uh B's algorithm goal to highlight consensus and the specific basis for it um is not actually PCAs. They do a matrix factoriization book prediction and they're doing it they're doing their algorithm works in continuous space. um they didn't want to cluster because they didn't want to establish like liberals and conservatives as as kind of like the base clusters. There was there was risk

[46:51] base clusters. There was there was risk that people would you know figure out one cluster or another and you know selfidentify with a cluster or something like that. So they they did it in continuous space to say like you know a difference metric and they have different assumptions. So that's fine. Um and uh you know you kind of see where they're like they're saying uh you know um it aims to identify notes that people on Twitter will find helpful including people with different points of view and that's kind of the general the general sense which is the commonality uh is looking first finding common the

[47:21] looking first finding common the differences and then seeing what can get through those um and budan wrote a um wrote a post um that talked about the prediction and the uh uh the matrix factoriization and the algorithm and that was all um it was an extensive blog post that he wrote which is which is linked um and you know interestingly like generally the platform because it notes Elon's well uh even though people have had a lot of problem X recently um there is a uh you know generally it's

[47:53] there is a uh you know generally it's been well um well received um and uh and and it's pretty pretty a pretty pretty exciting amount of open data that has been created uh off of Um and uh and it also, you know, fact checks Eli and fact checks the White House. So there's like general acceptance between the right and left that that it's a fair system, which is interesting. Um of course, there's criticism of Twitter and the algorithm and and this highlights one point about, you know, the the limitations of it. If Twitter becomes a fire hose of misinformation, uh that's there's only

[48:24] misinformation, uh that's there's only so much that a fact check do if people aren't seeing content to begin with. So it's like a fact that we'll see but the algorithm of course matters a lot too for uh um for for for driving um engagement. Um &gt;&gt; the facteing must be a different infrastructure. I guess what the polish algorithm does is figure out I guess I'm imagining opinion people getting a sense of consensus and whether this is a correct statement or not and then there's some separate process that like

[48:55] there's some separate process that like tries to fact check based on that. I guess do you know the back end of this? &gt;&gt; Yes. Yeah. Yeah. Yeah. Um yes. So the back end uh the back end is basically looking so so so for a given tweet like um like like this one from the White House. People who are in the bird watch system can all propose notes and they have to include a a link out to some grounding uh uh like the ELS data here. So So now now what you have is you have a list of notes. Now people are going to

[49:25] a list of notes. Now people are going to rate a note as helpful or not helpful or and and so you want and and and uh and what you're looking for the the statement which will be shown is you're looking the the objective function is is is to add a single uh uh uh uh comment a single statement for content and what the one that's going to be up there is going to have enough votes um and they're go and the votes are going to be from people who are predicted to vote different. So if people who historically have voted differently uh on helpfulness

[49:57] have voted differently uh on helpfulness um both find it helpful then it's likely to be shown and so the the the decision for the fact check uh comes from the you know kind of like the group form consensus pie &gt;&gt; but it is striking that I guess while ostensively polus is still powering this the goal is completely different than the nominal polish go which is again this threat now would say let's pick the best or single one that we're going to show. show. show. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So that that's that's really interesting. So um you know uh I'm just

[50:28] interesting. So um you know uh I'm just going to grab um this is uh kind of something I told them um community notes is not a misinformation system. Um it's actually a collective response system and this is a really good uh really good example when um when Keith who's a VP of product for Twitter um said uh thank you to you know so community notes says hey thanks for contributing this year right um at the end of the year uh and community notes collectively responded uh which is a a which is which um you know and and I it was funny to try to

[51:00] know and and I it was funny to try to explain that to them because they were you know I I said well you guys are you guys think you're building a a system for misinformation that has aspects of deliberation, but you're you're not you're building a a general system for deliberation and collective response that you're only applying to misinformation, but it's not going to it's a collect it's a high mind and it's not going to stop there. It's going to start talking to people and they and they didn't really believe me, which was very funny. Uh because it totally did and they got upset and they're still they're upset right now about this. They they can't stop it from doing stuff like

[51:30] they can't stop it from doing stuff like this, which is like you're welcome. And so and then and and that's really funny because I mean like I I I totally told them them them &gt;&gt; that seems a nice response to those. &gt;&gt; It's also a little terrifying because it's like you know the Borg is like you know looking at people and and uh and community does get into fights with accounts uh and stay on them and so then it's like okay shoot you know if everyone doesn't like a person it turns out that like then you have group informed harassment. So then then now

[52:00] informed harassment. So then then now that now community knows itself it's just no problem is everything's problem. &gt;&gt; So that's anyway that's that's a bleeding edge area of research that actually does need to be solved which is like constraining collective response systems to the task at uh when when you actually build the pipeline. Um and I think honestly this is this made me jump up and down because it's a boot cycle of a you know of a a system realizing that it's a little bit more than it was built for. Um anyway uh we wrote um uh uh we wrote a an article um on uh um you know

[52:32] wrote a an article um on uh um you know basically saying that uh saying like okay you know we helped to build the system. This was under Barack uh before the acquisition where they we helped to build the system um but uh also um you know the system is generalizable and much more generalizable than just disinformation um and can be adapted to produce mass public opinion. Um, and you know, here's how you would generalize community to become full on Twitter. And so, um, I hope that, um, uh, I hope that this happens on blue sky. This is the paper that I really hope you know, someone tests out on blue sky. I think

[53:03] someone tests out on blue sky. I think that's really a promising area that's undeveloped. undeveloped. undeveloped. &gt;&gt; There it will be a organizational thing, right? Because the technology is exists. So, it's just getting buy in and &gt;&gt; yeah, I think I think we're they have an API. So, I think it's a hack project level thing now. I really think people can can, you know, could pick up this paper and and like and and pick up the community notes repo and and and try stuff like uh uh you know for for collective response on blue sky. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think it's really it's

[53:33] &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think I think it's really it's really really promising I think. Um okay. Um I'll say uh uh let's see what do I want to what do I want to uh what do I want to grab here? Um I would bas I would I want to jump um to the end here and just say that you know one of the larger points here is that this this platform has been has continued to be um a kind of focal point for political scientists and CS uh uh you know to to connect um and there's a lot you know there's a lot of opportunity uh there um that that's that uh uh is is is nent um

[54:05] that that's that uh uh is is is nent um you know I just had a conversation with uh science po which is a a political science science science you know, institute in in France and um they you know, talking to political science students community notes, you know, coming here in the next month, uh it feels really exciting to me because there's a lot of uh you know, there's a lot of potential overlap um with with with all these concept uh all these concepts. Um and uh and so you know I I'll maybe say um that the you know the

[54:35] I'll maybe say um that the you know the big dream here um is that there's a uh uh uh an opportunity to connect you know open source systems for mapping uh mapping public views um since we have all this open data now uh uh to um you know to to these these these policy innovation units uh maybe they're working towards each other you know new new policy innovation units in in uh um that are using new tools and then a bunch of new data and new tools for social platforms and like maybe if this connects then you end up with much larger scale stuff and that's a

[55:05] larger scale stuff and that's a that's a really exciting kind of a hope &gt;&gt; I'm happy to go back over anything uh in much more detail uh in the time we have remaining but I wanted to make sure it was about to be the end and pass it back to you guys questions &gt;&gt; thank you all um pause for questions in the Um, well, people are thinking I I'll try to keep an eye out for my arms if they come

[55:37] keep an eye out for my arms if they come up. Um, I guess I'm reflecting a bit on when we've engaged with you on this. I've been most enamored by the adversarial angle. &gt;&gt; So, this this whole gap of like what is gameable and the sort of voting scaling voting game thing. But I I I guess I appreciate now more than before that now while you think that's important, you really want to push on the usefulness side of this. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; yeah, I I do in part because like so

[56:10] &gt;&gt; yeah, I I do in part because like so that is where I feel the most agency. Um because we have a lot of power to drive the system forward and in punting to so each individual conversation is firewalled from each other conversation. So like basically like we would say you know whatever sample whatever context that it's being run in being closer to the you know the um the responsibility of the owner we kind of want to it gives us an opportunity to stay out of that and that that feeling and own less which is okay

[56:42] that feeling and own less which is okay um but but ultimately we like to advance so there's a trade-off there. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Now, I bring this up because I guess I wanted to maybe pick your brain a bit on what you think the positive of changes are for impacting in uh political theory. So, talk a bit about some of the maybe LLM direct ones. I think it's like you know AI technology as a way to maybe help with summarization summarization summarization &gt;&gt; and describing groups and and grounding maybe maybe maybe &gt;&gt; a some of the conversation. I think the

[57:12] &gt;&gt; a some of the conversation. I think the predicting individual preferences is also interesting or individual judgments or voting and and where hopefully that can be used positively but you know both sides that that's a tricky one. Uh there's probably also like a very basic scalability thing but this seems I don't see any big system gaps the scaling the stuff up to even larger. Uh I'm curious I say all this because I'm trying to get a sense of a landscape of where you think computing can be most impactful. Yeah. Problems. Yeah. Go ahead.

[57:42] Yeah. Problems. Yeah. Go ahead. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah. So, so I do think there are are a number of of of really interesting problems. Um I think one of the the most interesting is um is in new forms of clustering. Um I mean we what we you know we don't necessarily want to use K means especially because like for instance so so if we consider that like you know the way that we communicate value like let's say you know in in um is how the groups differ right we can see like differ how

[58:12] differ right we can see like differ how group A voted how group B voted how you know and what statements they're we've looked at different clustering algorithms like you know you map an HD scan for instance would be an example or leaden. Um the the there are there are plenty of of options like that for graph based clustering but there's but and there's been a little bit of experimentation in polus of of different clustering. Um but nothing that's landed uh and and nothing that's really been like you know many forms of clustering

[58:43] like you know many forms of clustering are very noisy. So pavs is not noisy. you're guaranteeing that you know there there will be signal but it we know that we're missing with you know obviously there's more PCs there's more there's more dimensionality and there's hierarchal clustering approaches there's um you know there's there's graph based clustering approaches there's we we know that there's more but we don't have a compelling reason to advance that and so I think that like one of the interesting things that that comes out of LLM as

[59:13] things that that comes out of LLM as well is that it's possible to conceive We potentially have clustering algorithms which are like let's say if eight statements are saying exactly the same you know the same topic and then one topic is something different or if the statement is more substantive than another there might be all sorts of interesting waitings that um like let's say that you know the the is a really experimental but like let's go down a road where we we try to reconstruct like the logic like if the land bank purchases more land then there

[59:46] land bank purchases more land then there is um less land available for residents. There's a there's a structural like logic supply and demand thing there. We could look structurally at the argument itself and begin to reconstruct a public argument from that and to look at the this to look at sides in the argument based on voting records very differently. I think there's some really interesting work there. um but it's quite abstract u that that would be uh you know way off in in into the uh uh

[1:00:16] uh you know way off in in into the uh uh uh uh you know into into something experimental whereas something closer to home I think is like okay um you know uh uh if I go to like this is the this is a list um which is like okay you know could we um could we do better vote prediction uh um uh than polls doesn't do any vote prediction so like could we do better vote prediction is power and like like take community notes um where I can say like here are all the different ways we might predict votes

[1:00:46] different ways we might predict votes here's an overview of them here's here's some open notebooks on vote prediction that is a territory that is uh also very fertile um and and notes is doing vote prediction is not um and you know and re is doing um is doing vote prediction based on systems have a hold on oh um open review Oh, do I? No.

[1:01:17] Oh, okay. I'll have to send it over. There are um there's there's there's papers out um like you know neurists territory from uh from Remsh um that are using you know large language models to um to to do vote prediction as well. Uh and so it's like you know that territory is much closer to home given that there's already two implementations matrix factoriization in community nodes and uh and the semantic transfer stuff of like you know correlation within large language models predicting from remix that is an interesting uh uh um

[1:01:48] remix that is an interesting uh uh um area I think because you know there's room to benchmark on open data um how does prediction perform and I think it's closer to you know it's closer to to to to being immediately valuable and like uh uh and deployable as it's already being deployed by multiple different groups in different ways. Whereas, you know, novel clustering is better at finding expert signal, you know, and it's like no, no, this group's voting differently and it's high signal. This group is this is noise, this is

[1:02:18] group is this is noise, this is differentiation. And I I think that that's also something that is uh um potentially has a semantic aspect to it that uh uh uh but but is still very very very nent concept. Um, I wanted to jump in at this point. So, there's a lot of references to like the platform allowing opinions and uh issues to like naturally emerge, but then actually, uh, it turns out, right, that you're using a very fixed algorithm to do the clustering itself. So, um, is

[1:02:48] to do the clustering itself. So, um, is anything really emergent at all if you're actually just I mean the way you even talk about like picking clusters to amplify or diminish certain kinds of opinions whether or not noise is good or or not, right? Like these are all actually just uh subjectivities. And so like is it possible to just end to end allow people to run the entire algorithm um rather than like a blockchain or something, right? where yes there's a protocol but like I mean besides the protocol like whatever happens on that

[1:03:18] protocol like whatever happens on that network is just up to the participants. Um Um Um &gt;&gt; well I I would say that you know we're not um there's currently uh currently PCA and Kines I would say is the the the let's see let me ask your question really specifically. Yes I think there's an emergent aspect to the platform. It is defensible as emergent that anybody that any participant can submit any statement at any time and that means that the set of statements itself is not

[1:03:49] that the set of statements itself is not determined at the asset and I think that the the clusters are it's unsupervised learning. It's a function of the voting data. So different votes different outcomes. So I would say that it's I would say that you know the that that um we could drop the word emergent as fuzzy um and maybe helpful or descriptive at a high level but we we should be much more specific and we should say you know that that we're we're gathering as far as matrix dimensionality reduction clustering audit um and that the clusters that that that result are not

[1:04:21] clusters that that that result are not dependent on the natural language. Um and they are uh um uh they're not dependent on the natural language and they are um uh very um uh uh they are very much a function of they're they're totally a function of of participant coding behavior. Um so I mean that that would be much more specific than emerging. I think that that word is fuzzy. The idea of running um I I think that where the code runs uh like should there be uh you know um should there be like a like a protocol version of it where you know there isn't a server like

[1:04:52] where you know there isn't a server like do.is. do.is. do.is. Sure. Currently the way that we get we the currently the way that we build trust um is to open source code uh and to um and to allow people to run it themselves. And uh that is a that is one level of trust in terms of like yes the system is doing what it says. Um the the question of of of of reimplementing the entire thing uh on chain I mean that is an extreme level of you know of of of

[1:05:23] an extreme level of you know of of of trust that that has user experience implications people being able to log on and vote and so it's still a user experience trade-off as to why we wouldn't pursue something like that. I do believe though um that the uh uh the ZK space um is very promising for for for identity and I think probably the idea of integrating with an onchain identity provider um is is likely in the medium term to try to get around some of the barriers. &gt;&gt; I I okay let me clarify a bit. So like I didn't mean that uh polless or some

[1:05:54] didn't mean that uh polless or some version thereof like needs to be run in a decentralized fashion like I meant the algorithm uh the you could imagine in your head that like there's a way to do the clustering where it's just more people asking more questions right like some some set of further questions meta level questions where like if those are engaged with like the clusters just pop out right like the reason I'm asking it this ways because like as it's currently set up it very

[1:06:24] like as it's currently set up it very much feels like Overton window where you're like ah yes people do whatever they want um but actually you know uh there's like strict containment because like the clusters are the only thing uh that like bubble up or something like this and like that's kind of where I'm like angling at is like is there a way for like the participants end to end uh to control like the entire interpretation of the results, right? Rather than at any stage being top down

[1:06:55] Rather than at any stage being top down declared, you know, like ah yes, uh they did the voting, but like we impose the structure. structure. structure. &gt;&gt; Great question. Yeah. So, so what we're um hold on just a second. &gt;&gt; The question now is whether or not I actually have the local host running. Oh, I do. Fantastic. So what will ship soon um is a uh um is part a a series of five raw data files um uh in like API form read only um API form. And so one

[1:07:26] form read only um API form. And so one thing that we can imagine doing to prototype your idea uh is to have um a website that you know basically just like shows the data more in raw format um or pulls it in and you know and then or is in a notebook. So let's say if the person is a technical data scientist first and everybody is we're going to run it in data science class and everybody is going to be able to make meaning of it however they want and then argue about at a meta level about the meaning to make. Um I think that's like a that's a pretty you

[1:07:56] a that's a pretty that's a pretty you know advanced user set. Um but but I think that it's it would be neat to have a uh uh be able to say okay we're going to set you up first with like your conversation you'll be able to create data you know submit statements for pass create the raw data and then here is like you know um here's the raw votes matrix um and then you can just pull that in and uh uh and and get and get to work make meaning of it. I think for a participant to make meaning of raw data when it's just when it's as far as matrix is a bit of a lift. Um, you know,

[1:08:27] matrix is a bit of a lift. Um, you know, that's like that's a pretty technical path. Um, but I think that, you know, having access to the underlying data is something that we're you were currently. &gt;&gt; Okay, this is cool. First, okay, so now I can really ask the question. I don't want to like take up the time, but like I think it's very clear now. I'm saying if it's emergent then like uh it shouldn't actually be that they have to look at the entire um set of data and like you know like deal

[1:08:57] set of data and like you know like deal with it right wouldn't it be the case that each individual can engage with some small piece of the meta consideration right like I think this issue exists someone else says like oh I looked at this thing while I was answering questions and I think this pattern exists and then like people do that and and therefore it's still just people asking questions, right? But now um if it's emergent in the way that you're arguing, right? Then like it would be the case that like that fuller

[1:09:28] would be the case that like that fuller set of questions would allow you to uh you know create I guess what right now is being algorithmically determined. Like I know this is very kind of like almost circular but like that was kind of the point right is like people are being pushed I I I think I see that I'm not completely sure um that I understand. I think I see the direction you're going and I guess I would say that you know what would the question back to you would be what would if an

[1:09:58] back to you would be what would if an individual is able to say here's the pattern that I see and you have 18,000 people in a conversation how do you reconcile the 18,000 with those 18,000 responses? responses? responses? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So like one version of this is like um I'm again thinking in terms of like they've maybe engaged with like 20 questions or so perhaps they've seen summary statistics right like maybe they can see you know like how responses were coming in or something to some degree and then they might say pose a new question that's like oh well I think

[1:10:28] question that's like oh well I think that like two key issues are X and Y and then a whole bunch of people vote on that and then like maybe there's like some sort of meta level discussion now in the sense of like okay like there's some claim about what this person thinks the cluster might look like. Some other people are engaging with it or not. Um if it was formally defined then like that happens across a variety of different contrasts between different issues and then that actually is just sufficient to declare clusters.

[1:11:07] &gt;&gt; Oh, I see. Okay. So like uh if I can write this down, I think there's a way to think about this. So like on the GitHub, GitHub, GitHub, &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. If you if you think if you think &gt;&gt; Yeah. If you if you think you've got a a way to take the open data, you know, there's an open data repository where you can pull this into a notebook and mess around with it. I mean, you know, that's like the best way to to talk about this one would be would would be in code because you've got, you know, you've got potentially scalably many people. So, so whatever you whatever you're going to do if 10 100 a thousand we had 10,000 people 30,000

[1:11:37] thousand we had 10,000 people 30,000 people in a single conversation whatever you have you know with millions of votes so whatever whatever you do has to work across you know a data set like that the largest conversation that we you know that is up in the open data is the bowling green conversation which has like I don't know quarter million votes like 2,000 people quarter million votes so so you know you should like thinking thinking of that scale in terms of interaction there are interaction at 10 or 100 people or 10,000 is a different

[1:12:08] different different uh uh uh some of these ill we call it like elicitation like how you ask people for what they see um and you know the the the elicitation mode um you know it does does matter based on the scale um I think it would be amazing to consider um you know basically like everything being like rosex you know in the future uh uh and maybe maybe the model Maybe maybe a larger model will simply obate the whole entire so everyone will talk everyone will talk into the context window and the model will be like you're the

[1:12:43] &gt;&gt; yeah thanks for an issue with this I maybe it boils down to just like you know this theory thing where it's like you know how like people in Excel can build a touring machine or something right like even though it looks very simple like you can compute anything you want so like the way you were talking about people being able to add any question that they like uh is making me wonder if like that it's like the irreducible computational substrate and like you don't actually need anything more uh to &gt;&gt; than that. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I mean that's uh I I'd love to I'd love to read that paper.

[1:13:15] love to read that paper. &gt;&gt; I think we're about out of time. Thank you so much Colin. This is as always an amazing conversation. I think we learned a ton.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=1QpNZXL35NM
