# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: ML from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Model-based Preference Optimization

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=7i6WsIzZaeo
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:22:40 · Words: 42509
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/7i6WsIzZaeo.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=7i6WsIzZaeo

## Transcript
[0:10] Okay, let's get started. So, uh, today our main topic will be on metric elicitation. Uh, and the goal is to tie it to both some of what we've talked about already, but also a bit future facing. Uh, depending a little bit on time, but I suspect we'll get through enough that we'll get through some of this. uh I plan to touch on one of the topics that ties metricalization to mechanism design which is something that is sort of coming up uh meaning quite a bit later

[0:41] coming up uh meaning quite a bit later in the class. Okay. So, so far we've talked about last lecture was active learning. So we were trying to understand understand understand uh mostly the idea was we can frame many preference solicitation or preference selection tests as machine learning problems essentially classification ranking problems. the first lecture essentially try to make that claim uh up to again a lot of the caveats that we've pointed out over the subsequent classes right so we posited point of view you know this sort of utility maximization

[1:11] know this sort of utility maximization type perspective uh tied with sort of Boltzman style uh utility functions so these are like functions that are the key normative claim just to give a summary because I'm attempting to read faces on where people are so summary from beginning of class you know interested in preference modeling uh posited that one of the primary ways of thinking about this problem is to frame everything as sort of a utility estimation and then sort of preference selection kind of uh methodology. So the

[1:41] selection kind of uh methodology. So the key idea here is that you think of choices as being governed by some underlying utility and we build models that can help us estimate these. And we showed in the first class, second class actually, that all these things boil down to essentially a kind of machine learning problem uh where we're essentially turning preference choices uh which can be the sort of binary or rank choices or other kinds of comparison choices into classification problems. And so this look like machine learning. And so uh again you know it's somewhat of a narrow view but it is the predominant view and a lot of work has

[2:12] predominant view and a lot of work has been built around it. And over the next couple of lectures one of the things we did was trying to expand that perspective to include uh sort of multistakeholder perspectives and bunch of other things that may be missing from the narrow utilitarian uh framing of the problem. So that's of where we were in the last lecture. We tried to connect this to active learning. This is the idea that um in machine learning broadly we've found a lot of benefits in framing uh various kinds of learning problems as active learning problems. The idea here

[2:42] active learning problems. The idea here is that instead of uh having nature give you the samples that you're going to label, you have a procedure that uh uh sort of uh explicitly seeks which examples need labeling. And the claim is that if you do this intelligently and sort of your world is sufficiently structured the right way, I can learn much faster using this than using uh sort of standard existing just like found data style labeling. So random data labeling can be less efficient in

[3:12] data labeling can be less efficient in terms of in this case we called it uh sort of sample complexity effectively or query complexity. This has come up again here. uh how many samples do I need to be labeled in order to do a good job of the learning problem. And in the last class, what we tried to do was sort of discuss active learning as an interesting idea and then connect it to preference learning saying that a lot of what we know about active learning can be applied to preference learning and we show some examples for instance in the sort of car navigation example uh to show that these two tools combined can

[3:43] show that these two tools combined can actually be quite valuable in lots of real world settings. So that's where we are today. So today we're going to extend any questions on general framing. Yes. Yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; So on the last class with uh Sam to active learning is for like collecting library data sets but not necessarily active learning is not necessarily the utility maximization function. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So active learning is a generic procedure for &gt;&gt; can be applied &gt;&gt; but it can be applied to preference learning. And so part of the what we're hoping to pitch maybe is that uh one of

[4:15] hoping to pitch maybe is that uh one of the gaps that seems to exist in the preference learning literature is active learning as a way to help it be more efficient. Uh I'll give a stronger argument today or at least a argument today. Well, I can actually just mention now. So one of the reasons that active learning is appealing in a preference learning setting is that remember the key task in learning from human preferences is asking humans questions and the uh we've done a little bit of work

[4:47] uh we've done a little bit of work talking about the literature maybe actually this question suggests maybe we should actually uh anchor on this a bit more but there is literature and maybe just anecdotally uh it's not maybe hard to argue that uh people get bored very quickly, right? And so uh being very efficient in trying to get examples from people can be a good thing because this means that you don't need to ask as many questions to learn your utility function. So the way these things connect is uh if you're interested in uh sort of getting samples

[5:17] interested in uh sort of getting samples from people as a way to learn their preference function and you know as a maybe normative or at least observational claim uh sample collection from people is fraught because people get tired and maybe expensive and so you want to make this very efficient and combining this with tools that we know for like active learning to help you speed up learning is a sort of good combination that's overall. Okay. Um so we're going to play with the same kind of ideas today as last time.

[5:47] same kind of ideas today as last time. The difference here uh so the main difference here is that uh instead of thinking about the utility estimation problem in a generic sense I'm going to narrow down to a sub area where there's been a meaningful amount of work um that I think is meaning well interesting. So interesting in essence is maybe the first order motive for presenting this. I think it has some lessons that are potentially useful for broadly more broadly framing some of the

[6:19] broadly more broadly framing some of the questions on sort of preference elicitation. Specifically uh instead of thinking about sort of this active learning illustration preference learning problem in the generic sense I'm going to narrow down to the specific setting of picking metrics uh for classification problems. So cost sensitive message for classification problem which is a sort of narrow version of this broader set of things that we're interested in. In this case the utility that you looking to elicit are the relative trade-offs. So say

[6:49] are the relative trade-offs. So say different costs that people might have uh for different kinds of cost sensitive classification problems. And so the ma most of the class today will be on this narrow like a a deep dive on this version of the problem. uh and the connection to previous lectures is uh it's again a sort of preference elicitation problem but again a special case and we'll be using the active learning uh sort of point of view. So we'll be very sensitive to number of times you ask a question and that'll be sort of one of the main criteria of success and one nice thing is that we'll

[7:20] success and one nice thing is that we'll be working in settings where you can quantify this which is not always true. So you know many of the big problems that we're most interested in in sort of modern machine learning uh explicitly explicitly explicitly uh quantifying how many queries you need to actually get a good answer. So sort of this active learning problem plus quantifying the query complexity is a hard problem. I don't know how to do this for RHF as a specific statement. uh but in settings like what we'll cover today there is work uh you can actually

[7:51] today there is work uh you can actually like give bounds for instance and quantify how many samples you need to answer these kinds of questions okay so I won't go into proofs we'll state some very simple theorems when they're around and I'll refer to papers for details other questions on framing setup yes &gt;&gt; it's like a simple example of a classification classification classification &gt;&gt; sure so I'll go through that in a second it's good good question it's in fact the next next next the next slide. So, uh the setup for this problem is that I'm interested in

[8:22] this problem is that I'm interested in uh building let's say sort of a simple classification model. So, uh the mental model you want to have now is that or maybe I can ground this um uh a lot of this ends up being very useful in say clinical decision-m um for a variety of reasons uh in general in most machine learning problems in the real world. uh different kinds of errors have a different real world cost if you like. So uh I'm

[8:52] world cost if you like. So uh I'm building a classifier uh perhaps what I care about is the actual literal number of mistakes the classifier makes. So that's my ma major metric of interest and I care about accuracy fraction of errors right as you know or maybe uh false positives are really expensive. So uh predicting a label uh an outcome of positive when the true outcome is negative uh in a medical setting maybe this means that I uh incorrectly diagnose a cancer incorrectly state a cancer diagnosis. So

[9:22] incorrectly state a cancer diagnosis. So this of course causes uh you know lots of harm to the patient as you might imagine incorrect diagnosis of any kind and of course as you might know in medical decision-m like trying to understand better uh error rates of different tools of different kinds and so not just that it makes an error but the specific kind of error actually matters and so one of the ways to frame this question in learning setting is to think about sort of uh coming up or or thinking through uh sort of the right choice of metric that says most relevant

[9:53] choice of metric that says most relevant for the task. And so you might think about this as picking one of these statistics or thinking about mixing some of these statistics like weighted averages is another way to think about this. So I'm much more sensitive an example is I'm much more sensitive to false positives and false negatives. And so I want to wait in my learning problem sort of pay much more attention to errors of false positive kinds of errors. incorrectly making uh say incorrect diagnosis sorry incorrectly making diagnoses of a particular condition versus maybe false negatives may or not be true I'm just stating uh

[10:25] may or not be true I'm just stating uh that in many settings errors are asymmetric like they don't cost the same different kinds of mistakes that make and so they don't cost the same one way to uh build this into the model is to come up with some measure that sort of captures the asymmetric cost of different kinds of mistakes in classification problems this boils down to binary classification though many of these scenes can be extended to other kinds of learning problems. In this lecture, we mostly do the binary classation case because it's succinct and sort of easy to explain. Uh

[10:55] succinct and sort of easy to explain. Uh now I'll try to give some detail where helpful. So here there only two kinds of decisions that a model might make. It might make positive or negative decision. Those are the only two choices. A binary classification problem as you know uh and then uh there only two states of the world for every example. it's either sort of correct, positive or negative. And so the measures of incorrectness are uh did I uh state that something was positive but was actually negative or zero depending on how you just label things or did I

[11:26] on how you just label things or did I incorrectly state that something was you know predict negative but the true thing was positive. either way is a mistake and the claim here is that when the cost of mistakes are asymmetric then building in tools one way to uh that the sort of human preferences are helpful here or preferences might be helpful here are helping to ground asymmetric costs of different kinds of mistakes okay so you know I built a model it has a high accuracy it has maybe 90% false

[11:56] a high accuracy it has maybe 90% false positive rate 5% false negative rate if I'm sensitive to uh accurac overall performance then you know this is a good model perhaps this is quite bad in terms of false positives there lots of reasons why this can happen some of it could be tied to the overall prevalence in a population so sometimes that is part of the skew um so you know here's a model here are some statistics uh the key claim here is for the same model there are different ways to measure error and here's at least three right and each of these three

[12:26] three right and each of these three could be the right answer or some combination of um for different settings. settings. settings. So I pick another model. Uh here this is an illustration of say a nearest neighbor model for instance. Right? So it's a different learning model, same data set, same problem setting. It has a different accuracy. So perhaps here it has a lower accuracy 89%. Right? So it's worse in terms of overall performance. But in false positive it's better. So it went from 90 to 50. Uh and in false

[12:56] went from 90 to 50. Uh and in false negatives also better. So uh um again these are real numbers from a real problem by the way. So I can reverse engineer I have a spreadsheet somewhere I can reverse engineer some of these they actually make sense if you look at uh different rates of different kinds again often prevalence makes a big difference. uh and then say a third model uh in this case an illustration of support vector machine. Um so different accuracy number different false positive number different false negative number and so

[13:26] and so the decision for you as a designer here is I need to pick a model. I've explored three families of models. I've fit all my models the way I like to. I'm in some decision-m setting. I have three different measures of good performance. right uh which capture different things right overall performance false positive errors false negative errors I need to make a choice uh you know thoughts on which model I should pick and what might guide a decision I've given some of this

[13:58] guide a decision I've given some of this away I guess in the discussion but question for the group so you know if you're faced with this as as a designer which model would you pick and why and maybe what might move your decision I think for if it's in a medical application, I'd pick the second model because I'd want to have as little false negatives as possible. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, that's probably a reasonable way to think about a decision. Anyone else?

[14:29] else? else? I think for I mean default for most of us is accuracy. I think that's what everyone just looks at. You may not even bother looking at the other metrics. Um, anyone want to fight for false negatives? Maybe some setting where that might matter. &gt;&gt; The case of like cancer application that you mentioned. &gt;&gt; Yeah, I was missing something. &gt;&gt; False positives as false negatives can be okay. So maybe I'll go with &gt;&gt; Yeah, perhaps. So, you know, maybe

[14:59] &gt;&gt; Yeah, perhaps. So, you know, maybe you're okay with over diagnosis for instance. So, uh, again, you know, it depends on context. Go ahead. um may I mean this is another context uh I can think uh that in the criminal justice system you don't want to falsely incarcerate someone &gt;&gt; that's a great example &gt;&gt; false positives are bad &gt;&gt; yeah so you know again just repeating a bit uh yeah so if you're using these kinds of models as part of decision support and say recivism which is a common use case it'll come up later actually uh then they're incorrectly

[15:30] actually uh then they're incorrectly accusing or making some claim about sort of uh potential yeah for in that context for sure like incorrect predictions the overprediction is a big problem that's something you'd be quite worried about so you want to be conservative in a different direction in that setting so so what is hopefully clear from this slide is again you know even in this very narrow setting that many of you are again you almost everyone here has taken a machine learning course you're very familiar with this the main thing I'm hoping to

[16:01] with this the main thing I'm hoping to like highlight is that even here uh choosing the if you like utility function, cost function, loss function is actually not a free choice. We often think about it as a free choice. We don't think about this uh sort of uh carefully often. You know, this whole class has been about much more complicated settings where we think about choosing utilities or reward functions. So like how do I choose a word function to measure language model performance or measure funniness is I think was our first one of our first examples. These are for sure complex

[16:32] examples. These are for sure complex complicated things. But even in what we might think of as a simple thing like I just want to build a binary classifier, the argument here is that evaluation choices are actually can be complicated and contextual and depend on sort of the application set that you're interested in. And so almost always and maybe as a strong claim sort of across most of learning uh choices of evaluation or utility functions can be as important as every other choice that you're making in your model design because they can completely change what you value what

[17:02] completely change what you value what you think of as sort of a good result. So somewhat underappreciated but for the you know it's the premise of the work I'm going to talk about today. So uh useful to highlight. Okay questions, thoughts. Okay, so you know boils down to this choice of how you measure performance of a model and one argument and the main argument uh and the discussion today is uh well the actual thing that you end up picking is some performance metric which

[17:33] picking is some performance metric which is some quantitative description of uh how you are evaluating errors in your model. Again, similar equivalents essentially a sort of uh from the for point of view of this class reward utility metric roughly mean the same thing. Uh it's just mostly different domains have picked different uh sort of specifications but from our point of view these are all similar things but some description some quantitative measure of goodness of uh whatever

[18:05] measure of goodness of uh whatever procedure you're building or whatever machine learning model you're building. And so your argument here is uh as discussed you know the choice depends on relative cost and benefits and might change depending on how you choose to quantify a relative cost and benefits. So you know so far we've talked about these as maybe three options you know accuracy you know false negative only false positive only. Um you can also think about these as weighted combinations and that ends up often being very useful meaning uh the

[18:37] being very useful meaning uh the relative not not in terms of an absolute binary I'm picking one of these but actually like uh how uh sort of much more expensive is a false positive error than a false negative error. And if I can quantify this then I can give a weight to these different kinds of mistakes and I can think of building models that optimize a weighted combination of the different errors that a model can make. In this case, errors the model can make are uh sort of um different kinds of classification errors. So two types,

[19:07] classification errors. So two types, false positive, false negatives. Um if you don't like errors, you can go sort of uh different kinds of correct predictions the model can make. We'll go through this in a second. Same kind of idea. So you can think of like true positives and true negatives. So did I correctly predict negative and did I correctly predict positive? Turns out that these are essentially equivalents. uh we might go into this if we need to today. Okay. So you know bunch of different metrics out there. I went I

[19:37] different metrics out there. I went I you know even within classification even within binary classification we went through at least three. Um if I expand to sort of different kinds of learning problems there are a ton of them across lots of different learning problems. um even if I stick with binary classification uh if I allow myself to do weighted combinations I've immediately now gone from say three common options to really infinite options because all weightings so all real valued waitings are valid uh choices of measures that make sense in this context. Uh so very quickly you

[20:08] this context. Uh so very quickly you know the space explodes uh even in this very simple setting not to talk about again more complicated settings we've talked about in class so far. Um, another useful argument, um, again this ties to a lot of discussion in class today, but I I like I find it valuable even in this simpler setting because again there's this this this implicit assumption in many learning problems that uh sort of any metric is

[20:38] problems that uh sort of any metric is as good as any other metric. And so uh I can just sort of you know maybe the actual answer is different but you know things should relatively order models the same way and so just pick it any of the metrics and uh like they should all behave similarly suffic sufficiently similarly that any metric is as good as any other one for uh any of the things that we need to use them for in machine learning. So again for uh selecting models once I've trained them or if I have a metric I can convert that into a

[21:08] have a metric I can convert that into a loss function that I can then actually directly optimize. So you know are they exchangeable or not? There are lots of examples showing this is not true. Here's one of my favorites uh because it's salient for I guess when I was a PhD student I think this was uh one of for me at least at the time quite striking as an example of where metrics can fail. So, uh, any of you know the me the Netflix prize? Okay, that's still around. Okay, I guess Netflix is still around, so it's good.

[21:39] Netflix is still around, so it's good. Uh, in the 2010s, uh, um, when I was a student, uh, or was it around then? I think it was earlier than this but anyways there was a lot of excitement about um academics and industry broadly uh trying to build improve on Netflix's recommendation system algorithm and so they created this prize where they sent out sort of a large uh data set of a set of existing recommendations and asked people to predict missing recommendations and so this was a

[22:10] recommendations and so this was a competition they had a number prize tied to this was a million dollars a huge amount at the time probably even I mean even now sort of a big deal as a prize for um this kind of competition and it ran I believe it was a year though that's checkable I don't remember anymore but you know I tried we didn't do that well we did okay but not that well but lots of teams uh built tools for this if I remember correctly this uh team was at least the leads of the winning uh team that uh deployed the

[22:43] winning uh team that uh deployed the algorithm there's also other color I could mention offline but I'll just tell the main story here. The uh measure the metric they chose to use was what is the root mean square error of the prediction of the actual rating number. So uh in Netflix as you might know you get to rank things one through five stars. Uh so for every user for every movie if they've rated the movie there is a number one through five. And what Netflix chose to measure in the competition was uh mean square error

[23:13] competition was uh mean square error average of the um squared error difference between whatever prediction you gave for the rating and the actual 1 through five number uh and then square root over the whole thing. So RMSSE is that clear actually the details don't matter. So it's a choice of number. Um and but what they actually wanted was to improve the recommendation algorithms and arguably what matters for recommendation if you think of your Netflix interface uh is mostly like if I

[23:44] Netflix interface uh is mostly like if I get the the top of the ranking correct. So I want to get the first five or so uh to be things that you're likely to say you like because that's what you see when you turn on Netflix is a dashboard. But, you know, people, as you might know, there's a strong bias to the top of the list. So, you want to get the sort of top few things. Uh, likely accurate. So, people are likely to click on it. Um, and hopefully likely to like it, but it's sort of confounded a little bit. Click on and like is sort of assumed to be very close. And what they

[24:14] assumed to be very close. And what they found was that predicting roose mean square error as the measure did not necessarily correlate with uh trying to do a good job in terms of actually getting top end ranking. And in particular, you could come up with very naive algorithms. Uh something very simple like uh like a PCA thing or just like overall popularity often did much better than some of the methods that came out of this competition. Uh now the competition made sense in its own context. it was trying to optimize for

[24:44] context. it was trying to optimize for um root maker error and from that point of view they got some good algorithms but in terms of um actual the actual task it turned out that they didn't pick the right metric and in fact there were other metrics that made a lot more sense there are lots of metrics for top-end ranking particularly that would have been better suited that if they had picked uh they might have gotten models that were sort of better suited for the task that they cared about um and so you know for me this was a very salient example of sort of uh coming up with a task picking a metric that on its face

[25:15] task picking a metric that on its face sounds extremely reasonable. It's going to look for like average error. We use squared loss all the time. RMSSE is a small variance of squared loss. So sounds very reasonable, but it actually like is a bad idea and methods that win respect to this metric are actually often the argument here was that they're often not useful for the actual task that this was meant to build. So another example of again like metrics can matter a lot in terms of building algorithms. As a fun aside anecdote, it turns out you some of you might know this that Netflix did not actually end up using

[25:45] Netflix did not actually end up using any of the winning uh competitors. Does anyone know why? If you know some of the history, but some of it is this though I think that's not the biggest thing. Something else. It's another fun part of uh I guess norms and maybe academ. &gt;&gt; What year was the competition? uh if my memor is correct I think this was in the end year or so I think 2010 &gt;&gt; 20 &gt;&gt; so it was pretty it wasn't a deep learning

[26:15] learning learning &gt;&gt; so it was that that would be interesting I think they were using matrix factorization type method &gt;&gt; uh they had been using that and some other sort of content based thing was their previous thing so the short answer is it turned out you know the field came up with this is the heyday of very unsophisticated did uh matrix special pressurization methods. So lots of these sort of beijan hierarchical methods and things like that. Turned out that they were very expensive to run. They couldn't run it in in production settings at the time at that level of

[26:45] settings at the time at that level of compute that people were investing and the method that they were building that they had internally sort of was you know as good in terms of the things that actually mattered but much less compute intensive. So another fun sad anecdote that ended up not being useful to them. It was great press though. I think uh you know I think more than I don't think academics paid I think they got more than the million dollars worth of effort of people researching them being able to you know uh get people to come work for them. There's a bunch of other stuff

[27:15] them. There's a bunch of other stuff that they probably got out of it but the actual thing they thought they would get they did not get. It's a fun anecdote. &gt;&gt; Okay. So like that's the real world lesson then. &gt;&gt; The real world lesson. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Oh this is what I care about. This is a lesson for the class. Uh well okay so my counter so the argument is it's only compute because uh I guess your argument is if they had enough compute they would have run whatever won the competition. The counter is what if won the competition was good on RMSSE and I'm saying it wasn't good necessarily for what they cared about. So the whole premise of

[27:47] cared about. So the whole premise of this is is not just compute under the assumption that sort of the world is not perfectly predictable which I think most of us hopefully will agree that there's always noise and so relative costs relative errors do matter and um quantifying it appropriately for the task can make a big difference. Uh another example this comes from uh fairness work but I think is as another salient example. So this is tied to we're talking about uh so legal uh type applications. This is uh recidivism

[28:18] applications. This is uh recidivism prediction. So this is risk of reoffence. This is work uh out of uh I guess the company was called North Point. The algorithm is called compass. I think it's still around and still in use uh if I remember this correctly. But the goal was it was supposed to predict the risk of reoffense which would help a judge in censusing decisions. And so, uh, North Point, uh, was interested in good performance, accuracy, but also sensitive to some notion of fairness.

[28:48] sensitive to some notion of fairness. So, how does this treat different demographic groups? And so in particular they use a notion of fairness he types calibration which is roughly asking uh for different sort of probability bins of uh risk they should be reasonably well calibrated across sorry they should be uh similar across different demographic groups that's what they were hoping to capture. Um there was a post analysis by ProPublica which is a media company. Um and what they did

[29:19] is a media company. Um and what they did was they looked at a different metric. So they looked at false negative rates and false positive rates uh which is sometimes called equal opportunity in the fairness literature. I may get that wrong. The acronym is EO but there actually two algor two metrics that are called EO and I sometimes mess it up. Uh but I'm happy to send a reference. Um anyways, so false negative and false positive rate differences across demographic groups is the actual thing they were looking at. And what they found was uh that black defendants were twice as likely to be incorrectly

[29:50] twice as likely to be incorrectly labeled as higher risk than white defendants and similar kinds of issues. If I looked at the other so if I looked at false negative uh I saw again big disparities, false positive, I saw big disparities. So uh again you know from a is this a good algorithm that sort of normatively a good thing we'd like to deploy this was worrying um for me the salient takeaway from this work is you know it wasn't you know the claim that prop sorry the compass algorithm was not

[30:22] prop sorry the compass algorithm was not sensitive to fairness issues is incorrect like they actually had a fairness notion they built something uh there was a different party that poststudied the algorithm but used a different measure and came up with completely different conclusions. Right? And uh the argument here is again you know two quote unquote maybe well-meaning actors who are building algorithms can have different normative views of what might be sort of a good outcome for an algorithm. Uh from different normative views they pick different measures and actually completely disagree in sort of how they

[30:52] completely disagree in sort of how they evaluate a particular algorithm. One one uh actor says well I've done what I asked said I was going to do. who have built a fair algorithm for this very sensitive societal decision-making task. Someone else is an auditor. They look at the same task. They look at the same results, but they use a different measure of performance or in this case measure of fairness. They come up with a completely different uh conclusion. Um this led to I think there's also maybe a fun anecdote in this as well. This led to quite interesting academic work actually where uh at the time there was

[31:23] actually where uh at the time there was some hope I think also maybe a bit of naivity in the technical fairness committee thinking that we could come up with some measure that was like the golden measure. So there is exist some metric that will like be fair in a universal way for all different settings and I think people didn't appreciate that again you know as the premise of this class the actual metric you select has a big influence till this article because it made a big splash I mean some splash externally but I think meaningfully bigger splash actually within the technical community I was

[31:54] within the technical community I was studying this because they it really anchored a problem and let some following work if you've ever heard of impossibility results in fairness it comes from sort of the prompt of This work led to people to study this much more carefully and the main conclusion was sort of you if I'm interested in binary classification problems with sort of fairness measures roughly you can pick one maybe two measures to sort of uh try to maximize at the same time but you can't pick three so like uh the simple way of saying it is you know there's no universality different

[32:25] there's no universality different metrics will optimize like you know different uh metrics will pick different things as sort of the fair outcome Um or if you want to think about this in a sort of pure like metric selection sense uh the degrees of freedom are such that once I pick multiple measures of fairness I will not satisfy all of them simultaneously some of them will break another example of of the same phenomenon. phenomenon. phenomenon. Okay. So one of the ways that at this time my group was interested in this

[32:55] time my group was interested in this question. So one of the ways that we chose to engage in this question is to ask whether uh we could use human stakeholders uh this is you know again the premise of this class uh as a way to select metrics that align with the preference of whoever the stakeholders are. So the idea was there is not a right answer but perhaps for particular stakeholders there's a right answer for them. uh and so can we come up with an algorithmic tool that helps them efficiently select uh the metric that

[33:26] efficiently select uh the metric that best aligns with their preferences. That was the premise of this kind of work and so this led to what we ended up calling metrication metrication metrication uh which I'll go through uh in at least uh the highle key points over the next couple of slides. So okay so it's related to a bunch of other stuff some of what we've covered already some of which we'll talk about later. Um so we haven't talked that much about bandits yet but we will. So it's related to some of those ideas. We've talked a little bit about inverse reinforcement

[33:56] little bit about inverse reinforcement learning but uh we connected some of those and there's some sort of older core literature and say psychology econometrics that thinks about elistation uh which I think for the purpose of this class is reasonable to think of as again this combination of utility estimation with active learning is a good summary of it. And again, we're interested in the sort of narrow special case of using this as a way to pick good classification metrics or like metrics tied to

[34:28] metrics or like metrics tied to classification models. So, uh I'll mostly talk about the simple case of binary classification metrics. I'll refer to papers if you're interested to sort of other settings that are like the fairness setting, multiclass setting, a bunch of other settings that you could use this. So um you can show that uh sort of binary classification metrics uh linear binary classification metrics can all be reduced to something that looks like this. Um so as I alluded to earlier you

[34:58] this. Um so as I alluded to earlier you can think about this in terms of errors. So there are two kinds of errors a model can make false positive false negatives. It's a binary classification metric. And so you can think about this as like the relative weight of uh false positive errors versus false negative errors. And so the the problem that you're trying to solve if you're trying to elicit a linear binary classification metric is to fix a number for A1 and A2. Um as an aside, it turns out scale doesn't matter. This is the same thing as or let me say this better. We can't recover scale. Also scale doesn't matter actually. Uh meaning if I scale this

[35:29] actually. Uh meaning if I scale this thing up or down, it's the same metric. It picks the same classifiers. It ranks things the same way. So it's an invariant to monotonic transformations actually. Uh a few other things. Um, so the way that this shows up here is that actually it's not really two numbers. It's really, you know, the numbers are a bit tight together relative to you can scale them up so that they sum to one for instance. So if you pick there exists a rewriting of this where I can pick an alpha and one minus alpha as the relative weight. It's the same problem. So I I need to pick a number which tells

[36:00] So I I need to pick a number which tells me the relative weights on two different kinds of errors as a population measure of a classifier. And if I can pick those numbers, well, uh, this addresses the sort of relative cost of errors for a binary classification problem and is useful for sort of trying to solve this kind of problem. Questions on the setup? Okay, so I'll mostly discuss the noise resetting because I think it's or at least I'll start off with noise resetting because I think it's probably the easiest and the algorithmic tool will be sort of straightforward and perhaps I'll go into I'll mention some

[36:32] perhaps I'll go into I'll mention some extensions to other settings as well. So I already mentioned some of this but if you're interested in uh binary classification problems uh at least in terms of sort of population performance overall performance across the model uh the way we quantify errors are again these four numbers right so it's sort of true positive true negative true positive is uh fraction of times the ground truth is one the model predicts one true negative fraction times ground zero model predicts zero um false

[37:04] zero model predicts zero um false positive false negatives are the two kinds of errors the model is making. So is it making a mistake and incorrectly predicting one when the ground is zero and how how often is this happening and not our good across the population and then false negative errors is it incorrectly predicting zeros when the grounds is one and then we are grating this across population okay so this is called the confusion matrix for binary classification you can extend this to confusion matrices to multiclass classification instead of doing this for just two classes I have all k classes that are possible ground truth all k classes that are possible

[37:36] truth all k classes that are possible prediction And I have a k byk matrix for all possible combinations of uh sort of ground truth and predictions. And uh typically those don't have a name within the box. It turns out we do binary a ton and so we can call them uh specific names but you just have a I guess generic confusion matrix for larger multiclass classification settings. Is that clear by the way? I don't know if I have a klass problem. I would just have a k by k box right for uh y = 1

[38:10] a k by k box right for uh y = 1 y = k and then my predictor = 1 predictor = k and I'll count the fraction of times like each of my examples falls in one of the buckets and I get a k by k confusion matrix okay and then uh linear so you can also show maybe a fun aside. We won't go in too much detail, but you can also show that most classification metrics that people use or you might

[38:40] metrics that people use or you might familiar with can be written as some function of the confusion matrix. It turns out to be a useful quantity. Um and so in particular for linear ones for binary ones, you can think of the composition function as just uh a weighted sum on in this case the off diagonal. So it's it's some number that multiplies the false positive number, another number that multiplies false negative. Again, there's some degrees of freedom that you have to play with. Um but uh linear metrics can be written as

[39:10] but uh linear metrics can be written as again just these two numbers picking these two numbers. Okay. So a little bit on algorithm. So uh before presenting the algorithm, it's useful to do a little bit of discussion. So I'll spend I think two minutes on this. Um does anyone know? So if I'm interested in uh the max the best

[39:41] interested in uh the max the best classifier classifier classifier uh that maximizes you know expected value of my data over my data uh so x y think of this as a distribution of the accuracy. So indicator indicator indicator h ofx= y. Um if I know my distribution, what is does anyone know what the optimal class is? You might remember this from

[40:15] want to guess. So I know my distribution. I know my p of y, p of x, p of g of x, all that stuff. You know the answer to what's what model choice. If I knew my distribution, I could pick any classifier including one type to my distribution. Which model should I pick that maximizes accuracy? Similarly, minimizes errors. So, I can rewrite this as minimum over H. Number of times I make a mistake. Same exact problem. problem. problem. Then I remember, you've almost

[40:45] Then I remember, you've almost definitely seen it before. So it'll be something in terms of the probabilities. So this might be a fun exercise offline. Um you definitely seen it before or I suspect you've seen it before. Um when you build a logistic regression model, so logistic regression gives you a probability of Y given X. How do I convert it into a decision?

[41:21] Yeah. So you pick a threshold. there's a quote unquote natural threshold that everyone uses. Okay, so it turns out that if I know my population, it's actually the reason why we pick a threshold to have for logistic regression problems. And you can trace some of this uh in the technical literature as well. It turns out that the optimal decision-m rule is uh choose one if p of y given x is greater than half half half uh or zero otherwise. This is like the optimal fur. So truth.

[41:53] This is like the optimal fur. So truth. Uh you can also write it as sometimes people write this as sign of p of y given x. Sorry I should rewrite this a minor thing but it can be important. So typically we use the positive probability y = 1 given x= the same thing. I sort of uh subtract out a half check if it's very less than

[42:23] out a half check if it's very less than threshold one I pick one otherwise I pick zero negative one's the same deal okay so you might have seen this uh this sort of some where logistic regression semantics come from the idea is that we hope logistic regression gets us this and then we can threshold it appropriately and we get a good class um what happens if I uh go from this problem

[42:53] this problem to a weighted problem. So I'm going to write it in these semantics and to make it closer I want to make this instead of accuracy I want to make this error I'd make this minimum of number of mistakes right and so suppose I wanted to solve a different problem which is min over h get my expectation of population and now I'm going to look at two different kinds of errors so this is uh

[43:24] different kinds of errors so this is uh h of X uh I have false positives. So uh I predict a positive but Y equals Z. Um Um Um plus the other kind of mistake h of X = 0 Y = 1. So this is my overall problem. And suppose suppose suppose this is the exact same thing as this because this is the two ways I can make a mistake. So I'm just decomposing that.

[43:55] a mistake. So I'm just decomposing that. But suppose I have a weighted version. So I put that alpha 1 alpha 2 or A1 A2. Does anyone know or guess what the optimal classifier might be? So the best H that actually minimizes this turns out to have a nice parametric form as well. Yes, Yes, Yes, &gt;&gt; just a guess like would it be some ratio

[44:26] &gt;&gt; just a guess like would it be some ratio of the alpha? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So it will again be a threshold classifier. So it'll be s of uh p y = 1 given x minus some delta. And I'll confess that even though I wrote some other papers that defined this stuff, I don't remember off hand the actual ratio. It is a ratio. It's some ratio of uh do you remember? &gt;&gt; Okay. like a1 over a1 plus a2 something like this uh some very close that I will

[44:56] like this uh some very close that I will refer to a paper to get it it's actually quite easy to prove for yourself actually surprisingly uh even though at least informally uh some of the technical details can be hairy but the high level proof is straightforward um so this is will end up being a useful property we end up using it a lot for what I'm going to discuss in a little bit uh the main point I'm trying to make here is that the optimizer of weighted classification losses looks like a sort

[45:26] classification losses looks like a sort of threshold of classifier of some kind. So if I'm optimizing if you like there is a sort of clean connection between weighted losses thresholded classifiers and uh maybe another thing to mention is that you can also think of a weighted loss as a linear function. So

[45:57] any weighted loss can everyone see properly. Maybe not. Anyone who needs to see see see I assume that the TAs don't or fellows don't need to see. Okay. Some people cannot see. I'll erase the first one because not we're not going to use it. Uh it's a generic statement that end up being helpful. that uh so weighted losses

[46:28] So stuff of this type can all be written equivalently as like a linear function function function of the confusion matrix or you can also write this as like you know uh a few different ways to write it. Um you can write it as a transpose c and then you do a trace. You can also write it as like vectorzing a transpose vectorzing c. So all these

[47:01] a transpose vectorzing c. So all these are the same thing as sort of weighted utilities all have this form of like linear combinations. And so the connection I'm hoping to make is that if I'm interested in a weighted loss, a weighted sort of weighted error thing, uh, all of these end up being solved by some kind of threshold classifier with some threshold somewhere. Um, so how is this useful? It's a bit of a digression. So um, so let me connect. So it turns out that we can actually map out uh for

[47:33] out that we can actually map out uh for all possible classifiers, we can map out sort of all of the achievable confusion matrices. The way that we like to do this, you can do this a bunch of different ways depending on how uh your your favorite choice of parameterization. It turns out that even for binary matrices, even though there are four numbers, uh they're actually only two degrees of freedom. uh then one10i one10i one10i can take a quick look at the confusion matrix. Um so it turns out you can show this a bunch of different ways but one easy way to show this is that uh the sum

[48:04] easy way to show this is that uh the sum of tp and tn have to sum into the probability of y equals 1 which is a population constant doesn't depend on anything that you're doing similarly sum over this column sums to some constant and so independent of the classifier that you pick even though there are four numbers it's four numbers such that these two row sums are fixed as something you can show that actually they're only integrate freedom of like the actual flexibility that the classifier has in this setting can only adjust uh it can adjust the four numbers but you can always like if I have two

[48:34] but you can always like if I have two numbers and this four numbers I can always work out the other two is that so if I have any two numbers do I need to I think so um but for sure if I have sort of this number I can always work this out by taking overall fraction and removing that will give me this number similarly I can do that for black is two degrees of freedom in the multiclass case also Ah, in the multiclass case it is not two. It is k * k minus one. I

[49:05] is not two. It is k * k minus one. I think I have to double check. Uh, &gt;&gt; but it's not two. &gt;&gt; Huh? &gt;&gt; It's not two. &gt;&gt; It's not two. Yeah. So, it ends up &gt;&gt; It's not two. Yeah. So, it ends up scaling I think quadratically roughly quadratically with the size of number classes. It's kind of complicated &gt;&gt; I think because there's some issue with um um um like a cusp or something &gt;&gt; with the what &gt;&gt; like a cusp points.

[49:36] &gt;&gt; like a cusp points. &gt;&gt; Yeah. No, that's a whole other we're not going to get into that. &gt;&gt; Different. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it it's the multiclass case can be meaningfully different and one of the reasons I'm choosing not to discuss it. Uh it gets complicated very quickly. So we just stick with the binary case. Okay. So binary case we've done some degree of freedom stuff. The main observation here is, you know, I can describe everything with two numbers. And here I'm just choosing to use true positives and true negatives as the two numbers. Um, if you've seen ROC curves before, this is effectively an ROC curve. An RC curve uh essentially allows

[50:08] curve. An RC curve uh essentially allows you to show sort of as I trace out different choices of threshold uh for a given probability model under some underlying generative model like overall data distribution. I can trace out sort of all of the possible combinations of true positive true negative which are essentially all the feasible kinds of classifications I can build with a particular model for a particular data set. This maps out the whole space. Uh if you for the problems we care about uh

[50:38] if you for the problems we care about uh we only care about usually the top part of the RLC curve. It turns out you can also map out the bottom part. Uh you have to do a weird thing. You have to like intentionally classify badly to do negative classifications. anti-classifications but you know if you wanted to map out all possible classifiers so meaning I look at a classification problem some data generating model and I map out every possible TPTn pair that's feasible for a particular model turns out that you can fully describe that space and the nice thing is that the boundaries of that space are given by thresholdings of the

[51:08] space are given by thresholdings of the conditional probability so this is a sort of nice property what this means is that I can sort of tell you without knowing the detail of whatever function that you choose to use I can tell you all all the achievable uh trade-offs that are available for a particular costation problem and it just maps out to uh trying out all possible thresholds for the underlying conditional probability. Yes. &gt;&gt; So it's like a par frontier. &gt;&gt; So the par frontier okay that's a good way to say it maybe a better way to say it. uh the the connection to

[51:38] it. uh the the connection to thresholding will be useful which is I'm using it but it's essentially the per frontier of TPTn as two objectives &gt;&gt; across all possible class &gt;&gt; at all possible class sorry for particular data generating distribution okay questions on this &gt;&gt; is equal to delta here &gt;&gt; uh delta is going to be a good question the delta is going to be some function of the ace So So So put here where delta is going to call it

[52:12] put here where delta is going to call it like g function of the a if I give you a1 and a2 uh then I can work out what the delta is and I'll refer to a paper that &gt;&gt; is it what is p in this case pi sorry &gt;&gt; ah so pi this is a good question thank you so pi is probability y = 1. I'm just explicitly mapping out the degrees of freedom. So if you remember on the confusion matrix, I showed that the column sums. So probability y= 1 is

[52:44] the column sums. So probability y= 1 is pi and then the only other choice is y= 0 and uh probability y equals 0 is just 1 minus the probability y. So even in the row sums there's additional lack of degree of freedom. Actually an important is probability y given x or just probability y. &gt;&gt; Uh this is marginal over the population. So y equals 1. So p of y = 1 given x is the full thing. It'll be the object that we're sort of playing with. Uh if I average this over all the possible x's and I get fine

[53:16] all the possible x's and I get fine &gt;&gt; in this graph like delta has in this. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I now I I I apologize for being lazy because I didn't work out the actual equation but uh the delta here I'll connect it in a second and let me know if it's still confusing two seconds. Okay but delta has a role to play. So delta is the threshold on the conditional probability model. The claim I was making is that it will map directly to a choice of a and

[53:47] will map directly to a choice of a and I'll try to make that connection uh useful in a second if we'll see if it works. Okay, so the other point I was making which I already put here is that uh sort of weighted measures works out to linear combinations of the confusion matrix elements. I've already sort of made that claim. Um and uh uh uh there are a few ways to see this but um I just state it as a

[54:23] what's the best way to say lema maybe you can prove for yourself if I have a convex base and I'm looking to maximize something over the convex space the maxima uh sorry if I'm maximizing a linear function over a convex maxima always lie on the boundary just state that as a statement uh there's a you can uh the good references in like optimization 101 textbooks or if I don't think I have a reference in the notes uh the references in the papers that are referred to in so if you take a look at those or uh if you ask me offline I'll

[54:56] those or uh if you ask me offline I'll send some references but uh if you're not familiar with this if I'm optimizing a linear function of a convex space delma is always somewhere at the boundary and so the intuition we're going to try to use here is that the optimal is lambda boundary. The optima are always going to be these kinds of linear functions. You know that these linear functions are these kind of thresholds of the conditional probability. We're going to try to use that intuition to sort of map out. Uh so the main thing we're going to do here is we're going to reduce the problem again

[55:26] we're going to reduce the problem again where we started was want to fix an A that matches a stakeholder preference. Might have forgotten. So all of this uh engineering is such that we can convert this a really into a threshold and show that as a sort of correspondence one to one and uh the way that it will help us is that finding the metric that matches stakeholder preferences will boil down to like searching along this boundary. So we turn a I guess four-dimensional problem nominally nominally in the confusion

[55:57] nominally nominally in the confusion matrix space into a two dimensional problem by exploiting degrees of freedom into a onedimensional problem by exploiting the sort of geometry of classification problems. So so it makes our problem our life easier like but the underlying goal is still the same. We want to find some model that matches stakeholder preferences questions. questions. questions. Okay so let me try to put this together. How do we actually do this? Uh it turns out that a sort of a reason way to do this is to unroll the space. So I want to find uh a linear classifier

[56:31] to find uh a linear classifier or sorry a a linear metric. So a choice of weights that best lines with the stakeholder preference. Uh I didn't mention this but I think it's worth mentioning actually let me let me actually just state this. So suppose I could do pointwise search actually. Yeah. Okay. Suppose I could do search. What might be a good way to try to find the maximum? Maximum being uh I get to ask people questions. Every time I ask a question, they give me some signal. I want to find uh you can either

[57:01] signal. I want to find uh you can either think about this as the point on the boundary that's closest to their preference, which would be essentially finding this delta. Or you can think about it as finding the linear uh sort of waiting that both matches their preference, which is again the sort of it's a or these relative A1 A2 weights. Uh what might be some good algorithms for solving this problem? It's like a search 101 problem. Again, we're in the noless setting. Things are nice and easy. What might I try?

[57:40] &gt;&gt; Have you seen this before? You might have. You should have. If you haven't, that'd be worrying. &gt;&gt; Okay. So, my new search Um, so binary search turns out to be a good uh learning because he's in my group and should have read some of my papers. So there's no requirements. It's just a summation. Okay. So binary search turns out to be a good thing. It turns out binary search also works if I don't get to see things pointwise, but I only can ask pair wise preference queries. So what I could do

[58:10] what I could do is uh I can ask a bunch of pair wise preference queries along the boundary. I can ask uh do you prefer the classifier here versus the classifier here? So I know how to map from point to boundary back to linear weightings back to classifications. Uh so I can either ask these in the sort of confusion space or in the classifier space or in a sort of threshold space depending on whatever makes more sense. uh if they tell me that that that uh they prefer B to A this suggests that

[58:41] uh they prefer B to A this suggests that whatever the maximum is it must be somewhere towards the right uh I check B and C if they also prefer C then it must be towards the right is a particular instance of this set of queries uh C and D what do you prefer prefer D then it must be towards the right D and E uh I prefer D so wherever the optimal of this thing is uh we know that you know it must be somewhere between D and E by doing the binary. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Do we know anything about the convexity or concavity?

[59:11] or concavity? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So this is under the assumption. This is a good a good point. So there is a a a uh weak uniqueness assumption that's being made roughly. So what you need is you can also connect this to a rationality assumption. I think that's a good point. So meaning there actually exists a utility that that is actually driving people's decisions and there is a more than that there is a utility. So there is a unique utility or like we can approximate their preferences well enough with this linear waiting over

[59:43] enough with this linear waiting over different errors. So when that breaks of course this at least the like specific approach here will break. So this approach works. That's extremely good points because for that to work you need this sort of unimodal thing and the unimodality comes from the fact that or for the from the claim that there exists a utility within the class of utilities that we're searching over. &gt;&gt; So allows us to use a standard search procedure. Very good question. &gt;&gt; So capital A is not given that these preferences are constructed using some

[1:00:13] preferences are constructed using some A. A. A. &gt;&gt; Uh so that's excellent question. So every point I'm querying corresponds to a point on the boundary, every point on the boundary is uh equivalently either a choice of threshold or a choice of A or a choice of C. Essentially they're all equivalent. All of this derivation was to try to anchor that as sort of uh and given a problem and sort of distribution I can connect all these things together

[1:00:44] I can connect all these things together and all of this machinery is exploiting the geometry that comes from to reduce the search space to one dimension and so make these connections make the search easier essentially. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; So what you say is a noise free setting you mean like when people compare if they compare several time the same. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So uh that the comparisons actually reflect your true preferences and they're giving you those preferences error. error. error. So if there is an error then this is you know either the Boltzman setting there's

[1:01:15] know either the Boltzman setting there's some noise addition uh we'll go through some at least one example where you can uh expand this idea a little bit. You can use a I guess proistic variant of this search will work. We're slower in time than I imagined because I spent a lot more time on the setup. Um but I think we'll have time to go through at least one of these examples in the more noisy. &gt;&gt; Can I just ask please? &gt;&gt; So the uh boy on this battery is it's a true positive and true

[1:01:47] battery is it's a true positive and true negative for the population. So say that you want to deploy this thing to a human. You have finite data. &gt;&gt; So I was I was wondering how does a how does a final finite data impact does it make the the boundary kind of blurry or something? something? something? &gt;&gt; That's a excellent point. Yeah. So what will happen with finite data is that instead of having a smooth boundary you have a stepwise thing. So it ends up looking and if you've drawn RC curves uh

[1:02:19] looking and if you've drawn RC curves uh it will look something like like like this. Um there are a few ways to fix this. Uh the most common way that people use in sort of RSC literature is just connect these. Uh because you can show that I can achieve a classifier at the interpolation of the convex hall is achievable. achievable. achievable. &gt;&gt; The reason you can the way you can achieve the convex hall do a mixture of

[1:02:49] achieve the convex hall do a mixture of classifiers. These two low is achieved RSC of the middle or so any point in the com in the interpolation can be achieved by mixing the points on the edges. This is a bit of an aside. Uh your question was what happens if I have finite data? The answer is you end up with this stepwise thing. Um something like that. um you can convert the problem reasonably easily to something where this algorithm does something reasonable. The &gt;&gt; curve can go back and forth if you have

[1:03:20] &gt;&gt; curve can go back and forth if you have little data as it like the true positive estimation under finite data set. &gt;&gt; So that's a source of noise. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Uh so uh then you want to use a sort of more noise robust search method than short binary search. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So all of this for really expository purposes uh but also actually even the original version of this work we got reasonably far assuming noise free and sort of dealing with at least

[1:03:50] free and sort of dealing with at least some of these sources of noise at least stepwise patterns in our space okay so um there are some proofs in the paper I won't go into any detail the the main claim here is uh direct consequence of binary So if I just look at like what guarantees binary search give me for searching in like a nice problem space. It turns out that for a binary search problem I get epsilon accuracy with log one over epsilon steps by uh I guess uh

[1:04:24] one over epsilon steps by uh I guess uh proof by binary search I guess is statements but again the details in the paper if you're interested. Um it also turns out that unless you make more assumptions or constrain the problem further uh we are pretty sure this is the lower bound. You can't be faster than this. Meaning there is no way to ask other than making more assumptions or like constructing constraining the problem further. This is the fastest that you can estimate uh the trade-offs. Uh so you can't there's no way to ask fewer queries and get higher accuracy in the worst case anyway and estimating the

[1:04:55] the worst case anyway and estimating the trade-offs from uh people. So this connects to again the comment earlier like this is a space where it's sort of constrained enough that we can actually give some quantification of things like query complexity. How many questions do I need to ask uh to get a good estimate of the sort of individuals here? Okay. Um there's a little bit extra work adding various kinds of noise. Uh we call people oracle in this work. So you can use public extensions to handle some

[1:05:26] can use public extensions to handle some of the noise. Uh I'm not going into this. There's a bunch of other papers to look at to handle uh multiclass settings. I think it asked this question uh more complex metrics and some work uh and sort of different kinds of stakeholder group settings. Um we also did some more applied work. Um we'll have a whole lecture on HCI. So I I might use this example when we go back there. So for time reasons I'll skip on

[1:05:56] there. So for time reasons I'll skip on the details that's in the slides and there's a paper as well where we uh implemented this idea with um uh some stakeholders and uh showed that uh eliciting in this way seemed to better reflect their preferences than some other default approach. Okay. Uh any questions on general framing? So again big picture uh I'm interested in uh metric selection for classification

[1:06:27] uh metric selection for classification problems. I'm looking to pick uh costsensitive metrics that align best with uh like a stakeholder. And what we've done is exploit some of the properties of the classification problem such that we can convert the metric selection problem particularly in the binary case to essentially one dimensional search problem. Allows us to use some offtheshelf binary search algorithm and make some specific claims in certain settings about how quickly we can uh pinpoint the waitings that best match the stakeholder preferences.

[1:06:59] match the stakeholder preferences. I guess in terms of like questions to directly ask users like how do we get something that's a little complex like this like would you prefer &gt;&gt; okay so this is a excellent question and in fact it's one of the big gaps in line work so uh this framing depends on the ability of the oracle to do population level comparisons and so you can think about in in this example this is like um so I guess one key point is first educating on like

[1:07:29] key point is first educating on like perfect classification is not possible and in general this is true. So it's not possible here are different trade-offs that you might imagine making and what we're trying to ground stakeholders on is how this trade-offs might look at look like in maybe individual examples. So, you know, one of the ways that one could try is like come up with scenarios that capture uh what this might mean if I um like what a false positive, false negative error might mean and uh ask

[1:08:01] negative error might mean and uh ask preferences for those situations and then ask them like how this might reflect in the population level based on a sort of base error rate or something like this and uh try to get at their preference from that. I think your point is very well taken. And I think that's actually a big gap in this kind of work is that it needs a fairly sophisticated uh stakeholder such that they can do these kinds of comparisons because these comparisons are at a sort of population comparison level. And so some of uh like useful extensions of this work might

[1:08:32] useful extensions of this work might include like not specifying the measures at the overall. So okay so things are tied in that if you're interested in weighted consensus metrics the natural space to do the comparison is at this population preference level. Uh if instead instead instead uh either you think your preferences are much more contextual so it's not about overall population weights but like individual example weights for example then you want uh one your problem gets

[1:09:03] then you want uh one your problem gets more complicated because the set of measures now needs to be conditional. So a will condition on x now because it's a different way to say it for different points in the space as opposed to a single weight across all different heads. There ways to frame a problem like this. Uh this has the big benefit of like delistation problem is a little bit easier because I can now do it as an example level as opposed to the population level. I can give an example for this person. Would you prefer this mistake versus other mistake? It's like much granular easier for response. uh

[1:09:34] much granular easier for response. uh but then your metric space is much more complicated. Um we sort of intentionally tried to give uh queries of this type because we wanted people to like their uh cognitive biases to match the population setting because otherwise you can actually have a a mismatch between the way you ask in the question and the set of kinds of metrics that you're asking for can lead to other kinds of mistakes and errors. So I guess maybe

[1:10:05] mistakes and errors. So I guess maybe the big takeaway is uh and actually given the questions I might spend a bit more time on this in the HIL lecture is uh that useful versions of this usually need some meaningful connection between the algorithmic problem and sort of the human problem. Very important. Okay. Other thoughts or questions? Yes. So you see like the whole framing it doesn't necessarily have to be true

[1:10:37] doesn't necessarily have to be true positive with the the rate. It can be anything as long as complex combination and it have on geometry. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Then like the search and the query complexity can just apply. So for example, I might trade between maybe the cost that I construct in a certain model versus the accuracy and not necessarily about uh false positive and false negative. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is you know I can

[1:11:07] &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is you know I can restate it as like you know is this a generic way to do per frontier search right to pick operating points in a per frontier. Uh yes and no. Uh I think the thing that makes this actionable is being able to map back from a choice on a frontier to a particular model that achieves that choice. Um if you have a mechanism that can do the full loop then in principle yes I guess you can generalize the same idea. Uh this comes out really nicely in the classification

[1:11:37] out really nicely in the classification setting. I think if you're thinking of I don't know that's a complicated one. Accuracy versus speed of training. Yeah. And if you have a sort of a good way to instantiate the full loop of this then in principle you can use a similar idea. Uh it gets much more complicated in general though. So this is a case where things work out. Um I'm not sure I haven't thought about other cases but the methodology that is other than we're exploiting the geometry to make our life easier. I

[1:12:07] geometry to make our life easier. I guess it's not that special to necessarily binary classification. Sure. &gt;&gt; I mean the geometry is special. Yes, Yes, Yes, &gt;&gt; that it's convex and uh you know &gt;&gt; yes &gt;&gt; one object because because because &gt;&gt; so does where is the complexity come from was that like the fact that you have linear combination &gt;&gt; uh the convexity comes from what's the easy way to say this so I guess the statement is the set of feasible confusion matrices are

[1:12:38] of feasible confusion matrices are convex sets uh &gt;&gt; well that okay that is intuitive in the sense that like you can argue like oh well if I have two classifiers &gt;&gt; yeah you can always achieve the interpolation yeah so you can prove that easily easily easily &gt;&gt; let me state that explicitly just for people who are interested so the statements the set of feasible confusion matrices convex set comes or one way to prove it the key property of convexity is that uh taking any two points I can find a point in the middle or sorry any point interpolation will always be

[1:13:08] point interpolation will always be within the set as you might recall from either machine learning or so This this is the statement that the key property of comeback sets is that any two points you can interpolate and remain within the set and you know if I have a set like that I can pick two points that I have to leave the set to interpolate and that that's not common non-convex set and so the statement being made now is the proof of convexity for confusion matrices is easy to show because if you know that if you remember from ROC curves essentially that like uh any two points in RC curve can be interpolated

[1:13:39] points in RC curve can be interpolated by weighted combinations of the classifiers classifiers classifiers Uh, and that's sort of the all you need for that proof. &gt;&gt; I just wanted to make sure, but I hope you I didn't lose your train of thought. &gt;&gt; No, I like when we talk about something like more abstract. So, what was it like training speed and some other metric like I think it becomes uh less clear like what what space that's going to live in. He might argue like, "Oh, well, you can just randomly pick or

[1:14:10] you can just randomly pick or something," but then it doesn't end up working out the same way because like maybe the the actual shape that you get isn't isn't interesting. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I I don't know. So, I think the actual answer I I think the premise is appealing that you can generalize ideas to other things. I think your criticism is also correct which is you know for this to work you need some of these properties to be true including convexity of the space over which you're searching which is what makes the sort of the connection easy uh if I wanted to

[1:14:40] of the connection easy uh if I wanted to use this from some other setting I don't we would have to check those properties and see what was true or devise something that worked in some other space but I this is a comment now okay but I think it's useful like the idea of a confusion space or trying to tabulate how or the paro frontier idea any way you want to call it that is a useful and generalizable idea that you do see. So like people will often do research that is very close to something like a rock curve without

[1:15:10] something like a rock curve without knowing it and if you point that out you can can can &gt;&gt; usually spur them to uh reconsider something from a different perspective which tends to be helpful. &gt;&gt; I agree that's a good comment. Um yeah, &gt;&gt; I guess like maybe in a generic setting you cannot have a full loop but I I felt like here the because you pick the threshold and you end up with many choice of model but in practice when I felt like you only have

[1:15:42] practice when I felt like you only have few number of model like a 100 model or something and and you don't like for cost you can't threshold like there's no there's a model that cost $100 there's another model that cost $110 there's nothing in between. Um also &gt;&gt; I think no I mean maybe maybe not I don't know it also may be that it's a useful abstraction for the search process even if &gt;&gt; uh so I don't know I think it's a you know beyond the setting so the thing that has been worked out is the setting I think beyond the setting there is interest I think we've played a little

[1:16:12] interest I think we've played a little bit with trying to extend but I don't think we've done a this in full generality necessarily and you know we can talk about that offline um so we have 3 minutes. Uh, and I had three papers and we got through one. Um, the third one easily can move to mechanism design. Let me spend a couple of minutes on the second one because I think it's interesting. Uh, because I also don't think we'll have time to go through it later, but I might offline

[1:16:42] through it later, but I might offline take a look at it. Um, so so so how do I do this in two minutes? Um, okay. okay. okay. There there there's a talk and a sorry there there's a poster there's a talk there's a paper you can take a look but maybe I'll frame the problem and a little bit of the algorithm because it it buries it borrows a lot from what we just talked about so I think this will be close um so the naming and the framing is a little bit different though there's a lot of underlying connections to what we just talked about it's it's

[1:17:12] to what we just talked about it's it's again in the setting of binary classification problems um and it it alludes to a concept in psychology called inverse decision theory which um is a way to frame the idea of some of how we think about um uh inferring other people's preferences is by or one way to think about inferring other people's preferences to think about sort of uh their underlying preference problem as uh matching some

[1:17:42] preference problem as uh matching some underlying underlying underlying I'm going to I'm going to do this but at least I will actually stop I I'll say this explicitly in a human machine interaction setting. So uh the setting that's interesting that I wanted to work on is the machine has some models. So the machine has done this work of estimating conditional probabilities. Um and I'm looking to find the classifiers. I'm looking to find the decision rule. Um and I want to do this from a few samples. Uh a little bit different from the previous setting is I'm going to try to do this at the individual sample

[1:18:13] to do this at the individual sample level uh instead of at the population level. So instead of comparing to tie to your question a little bit instead of comparing sort of population uh metrics over or pref population performances over things I'm going to exploit geometry a little bit more to actually try to do search over specific examples and ask people preferences over labelings of different examples as a way to get at uh you can either think about this as the threshold that best matches their preferences and then my claim is the threshold will map to a trade-off in

[1:18:44] the threshold will map to a trade-off in uh sort of space that best matches the trade-offs that uh they're most interested in. So again like much of what we've been doing you know you need I didn't mention this earlier actually this is a useful abstraction uh you need the model first for both of what I've talked about you can think about this is one abstraction that people sometimes like is think of getting this model as pre-training right to get the overall distribution and then preference tuning is finding the weights or the threshold that matches the decision-m setting that you're most interested in that matches a

[1:19:15] you're most interested in that matches a little bit some of the rest of the settings that we've been talking about. Okay. So, okay. okay. So, what's helpful to say? So, it turns out I can solve this problem. I think I'll go just go straight to algorithm. So, it turns out I can solve this problem. I think the interesting aspect of this paper compared to what I just talked about is that uh we tried to be a bit more explicit about sources of noise uh as opposed to again assuming zero

[1:19:46] uh as opposed to again assuming zero noise. So this allows for noise that comes from a distribution of stakeholders, noise that comes from some extent error in the algorithm, potentially other kinds of uh noise that can lead to uncertainty. Um and the main uh algorithmic change here is that using a probabistic version of sort of a search algorithm instead of the deterministic one. So you can use a probabistic bisection algorithm uh details in the paper or in the well in

[1:20:16] details in the paper or in the well in the slide and also in the paper. Um works very similarly to what we just talked about. The main difference is again uh it allows for some uncertainty. The key intuition is um you build a prior over possible threshold points uh and then every time you get additional signal so labels from people you'll upweight evidence that's telling you the threshold is more likely to be here or not here. And in fact you can use this to show explicit proofs of like uh how long will it take before I get uh the

[1:20:48] long will it take before I get uh the right threshold. And you can think about this is uh when will the measure around a particular point be high enough so greater than half for instance. So um I won't go into detail but mention this is there um I'm going to end here because we're at time um I think the thing and we'll talk about options when we talk about me design um maybe I'll just go straight to summary so I'll just move this to future lecture so the main things we talked about talked about metricalistation which is a specific

[1:21:18] metricalistation which is a specific instantiation instantiation instantiation of the combination of preference estimation and the sort of classification problems and showed that you can do sort of some special things there because there's a lot of structure that you can exploit. Um, and we talked about how we can use this for some of the aggregation. I did this very quickly, but this is the second paper. I may try to find time to um, spend more time on that because I think it's interesting. Um, we didn't talk about this, but I I'll mention you can use this for other kinds of problem settings like algorithmic fairness problems and

[1:21:48] like algorithmic fairness problems and the like. Um, and we didn't cover the last one at all. So, uh, that's most of what I wanted to cover today. I think it's fine that we mostly covered the main thing because the key intuition is again and the key takeaway well one is you know just like in uh general learning problems we spent a lot of time thinking about utility functions and metrics even in very simple say binary classation problems that choice is also an important one and many of the tools we've been building over class can be useful there and specifically in that setting we can use this combination of active learning and preference learning

[1:22:19] active learning and preference learning as a way to do a hopefully much better job of picking utilities that better reflect stakeholder preferences and so that's the key takeaway hopefully that I'd like from this some detail uh in the slides and maybe in homework to around some things and future lecture we'll talk about bandits and sort of other kinds of algorithmic tools that can help us in preference learning. Thank you.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=7i6WsIzZaeo
