# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Introduction

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=ApF2OenMgfc
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:16:53 · Words: 37545
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/ApF2OenMgfc.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=ApF2OenMgfc

## Transcript
[0:07] Hi everyone, I'm Sammy Coua um faculty Hi everyone, I'm Sammy Coua um faculty in computer science. I work broadly in in computer science. I work broadly in in computer science. I work broadly in trustworthy machine learning and AI. Um trustworthy machine learning and AI. Um trustworthy machine learning and AI. Um and uh just to you know check that and uh just to you know check that and uh just to you know check that you're in the right room. This is CS you're in the right room. This is CS you're in the right room. This is CS 329H machine learning from human 329H machine learning from human 329H machine learning from human preferences. preferences. preferences. Excited to have everyone here today. Um Excited to have everyone here today. Um Excited to have everyone here today. Um in addition to myself uh we have a in addition to myself uh we have a in addition to myself uh we have a teaching fellow Sang say hello. So we'll teaching fellow Sang say hello. So we'll teaching fellow Sang say hello. So we'll be uh engaging a ton with Sang over the be uh engaging a ton with Sang over the be uh engaging a ton with Sang over the course of the quarter. Um so over the

[0:38] course of the quarter. Um so over the course of the quarter. Um so over the course of the quarter uh you have many course of the quarter uh you have many course of the quarter uh you have many chances to interact with the teaching chances to interact with the teaching chances to interact with the teaching staff. Um so the plan today as always staff. Um so the plan today as always staff. Um so the plan today as always for initial lecture is a sort of general for initial lecture is a sort of general for initial lecture is a sort of general overview. So, we'll get into overview. So, we'll get into overview. So, we'll get into uh some of the framing of the course. Uh uh some of the framing of the course. Uh uh some of the framing of the course. Uh the course is new. Um this is the second the course is new. Um this is the second the course is new. Um this is the second time we've offered it. So, it was time we've offered it. So, it was time we've offered it. So, it was offered first last fall and this is the offered first last fall and this is the offered first last fall and this is the second time we're offering the class. Um second time we're offering the class. Um second time we're offering the class. Um we're still figuring out exactly what we're still figuring out exactly what we're still figuring out exactly what this course is. So, uh the upside is I

[1:09] this course is. So, uh the upside is I this course is. So, uh the upside is I think it'll be slightly less think it'll be slightly less think it'll be slightly less experimental than last time. So you guys experimental than last time. So you guys experimental than last time. So you guys are, you know, you'll you'll benefit are, you know, you'll you'll benefit are, you know, you'll you'll benefit from some of the experiments we did a from some of the experiments we did a from some of the experiments we did a year ago. Uh but also I think we're year ago. Uh but also I think we're year ago. Uh but also I think we're there's some rough edges. So we'll there's some rough edges. So we'll there's some rough edges. So we'll depend on you for feedback on aspects of depend on you for feedback on aspects of depend on you for feedback on aspects of the course that you think are going well the course that you think are going well the course that you think are going well or badly to sort of further refine it. or badly to sort of further refine it. or badly to sort of further refine it. Um so you know the course is sort of Um so you know the course is sort of Um so you know the course is sort of timely I think for many of us exciting timely I think for many of us exciting timely I think for many of us exciting by lots of engagements in or aspects of by lots of engagements in or aspects of by lots of engagements in or aspects of machine learning that are very explicit machine learning that are very explicit machine learning that are very explicit about using human feedback. Our goal is

[1:39] about using human feedback. Our goal is about using human feedback. Our goal is to engage with some of these questions to engage with some of these questions to engage with some of these questions uh both on the application side but also uh both on the application side but also uh both on the application side but also hopefully much more foundationally and I hopefully much more foundationally and I hopefully much more foundationally and I mean foundationally in a broad sense. So mean foundationally in a broad sense. So mean foundationally in a broad sense. So uh both the aspects that are about uh both the aspects that are about uh both the aspects that are about machine learning but also we'll touch on machine learning but also we'll touch on machine learning but also we'll touch on aspects that tie to things like aspects that tie to things like aspects that tie to things like economics, psychology, economics, psychology, economics, psychology, we'll we'll we'll play amateur we'll we'll we'll play amateur we'll we'll we'll play amateur everything. Uh hopefully not too badly. everything. Uh hopefully not too badly. everything. Uh hopefully not too badly. Uh some of this will be with the core Uh some of this will be with the core Uh some of this will be with the core staff, some of this will be with invited staff, some of this will be with invited staff, some of this will be with invited lectures. I'll go through some of this lectures. I'll go through some of this lectures. I'll go through some of this uh over the course of the meeting today

[2:11] uh over the course of the meeting today uh over the course of the meeting today um or the class today. Um before going um or the class today. Um before going um or the class today. Um before going into slides, so one I think nice benefit into slides, so one I think nice benefit into slides, so one I think nice benefit of the fact that this is the second time of the fact that this is the second time of the fact that this is the second time we're teaching the class is that uh the we're teaching the class is that uh the we're teaching the class is that uh the core staff and other folks have been core staff and other folks have been core staff and other folks have been proactive proactive proactive about putting together a textbook. So we about putting together a textbook. So we about putting together a textbook. So we have a textbook. Um to my knowledge have a textbook. Um to my knowledge have a textbook. Um to my knowledge there isn't a textbook on this topic in there isn't a textbook on this topic in there isn't a textbook on this topic in the world or if there is it's not the world or if there is it's not the world or if there is it's not public. So you know I think a unique public. So you know I think a unique public. So you know I think a unique resource from engaging in this class uh

[2:42] resource from engaging in this class uh resource from engaging in this class uh there'll be a link in the slides which there'll be a link in the slides which there'll be a link in the slides which you'll be able to access for the book you'll be able to access for the book you'll be able to access for the book and other material. So you'll be able to and other material. So you'll be able to and other material. So you'll be able to see all this stuff and it has uh so it's see all this stuff and it has uh so it's see all this stuff and it has uh so it's it's a very rough cut so again be gentle it's a very rough cut so again be gentle it's a very rough cut so again be gentle but you know criticize and give us but you know criticize and give us but you know criticize and give us feedback as you go through. uh but feedback as you go through. uh but feedback as you go through. uh but mostly today we'll go through the mostly today we'll go through the mostly today we'll go through the introduction over the course of the introduction over the course of the introduction over the course of the quarter we'll go through aspects related quarter we'll go through aspects related quarter we'll go through aspects related to modeling human choice uh some of the to modeling human choice uh some of the to modeling human choice uh some of the model based techniques and the model based techniques and the model based techniques and the preference learning preference learning preference learning uh third third module being model free

[3:15] uh third third module being model free uh third third module being model free optimization optimization optimization and then finally a module on human and then finally a module on human and then finally a module on human values and AI alignments so that's the values and AI alignments so that's the values and AI alignments so that's the rough setup of the course um sort of rough setup of the course um sort of rough setup of the course um sort of intro section and then uh these four intro section and then uh these four intro section and then uh these four section S um in addition to section S um in addition to section S um in addition to uh like I said the teaching time there uh like I said the teaching time there uh like I said the teaching time there will also be um so if we look through will also be um so if we look through will also be um so if we look through the syllabus uh there'll also be quite a the syllabus uh there'll also be quite a the syllabus uh there'll also be quite a few invited lectures early October so few invited lectures early October so few invited lectures early October so roughly at the end of our V module we

[3:46] roughly at the end of our V module we roughly at the end of our V module we expect to have uh an invited lecture on expect to have uh an invited lecture on expect to have uh an invited lecture on topics relevant to the module that we topics relevant to the module that we topics relevant to the module that we just covered um just covered um just covered um this iteration of the course uh is the this iteration of the course uh is the this iteration of the course uh is the first time we're having homework. So first time we're having homework. So first time we're having homework. So last time it was purely sort of last time it was purely sort of last time it was purely sort of discussion and lecture. Um this time discussion and lecture. Um this time discussion and lecture. Um this time we're setting it up as uh 60% homework. we're setting it up as uh 60% homework. we're setting it up as uh 60% homework. You get the first homework You get the first homework You get the first homework uh soon in about a week or so. Um uh soon in about a week or so. Um uh soon in about a week or so. Um again they're you know unlike courses

[4:18] again they're you know unlike courses again they're you know unlike courses I've been running for a long time. This I've been running for a long time. This I've been running for a long time. This will be sort of fresh iterations of will be sort of fresh iterations of will be sort of fresh iterations of homework questions. So again I'm sure homework questions. So again I'm sure homework questions. So again I'm sure there'll be some wrinkles. uh it's a there'll be some wrinkles. uh it's a there'll be some wrinkles. uh it's a small to medium class. So our hope is small to medium class. So our hope is small to medium class. So our hope is there's a lot of uh discussion back and there's a lot of uh discussion back and there's a lot of uh discussion back and forth and uh we can both be uh sort of forth and uh we can both be uh sort of forth and uh we can both be uh sort of adaptive to the needs and what you want adaptive to the needs and what you want adaptive to the needs and what you want to learn but also uh we can learn a to learn but also uh we can learn a to learn but also uh we can learn a bunch from you on how to improve the bunch from you on how to improve the bunch from you on how to improve the material in the course. Um there's a big material in the course. Um there's a big material in the course. Um there's a big focus on projects for a class like this. focus on projects for a class like this. focus on projects for a class like this. So um the plan is that you would

[4:51] So um the plan is that you would So um the plan is that you would organize into groups of up to five organize into groups of up to five organize into groups of up to five students. Um and each group will have a students. Um and each group will have a students. Um and each group will have a series of deliverables that at the end series of deliverables that at the end series of deliverables that at the end will be uh a final project that'll be will be uh a final project that'll be will be uh a final project that'll be presented at least to the class group presented at least to the class group presented at least to the class group and potentially to additional folks and potentially to additional folks and potentially to additional folks externally. So this seems to have worked externally. So this seems to have worked externally. So this seems to have worked well and many of you have taken courses well and many of you have taken courses well and many of you have taken courses that have sort of a big project flavor. that have sort of a big project flavor. that have sort of a big project flavor. Um so that's part of our plan uh for the Um so that's part of our plan uh for the Um so that's part of our plan uh for the rest of this class.

[5:22] And then uh as mentioned because there's And then uh as mentioned because there's a bunch of stuff that we're still a bunch of stuff that we're still a bunch of stuff that we're still figuring out there's a meaningful load figuring out there's a meaningful load figuring out there's a meaningful load on class participation. So we encourage on class participation. So we encourage on class participation. So we encourage you to engage in the class either in the you to engage in the class either in the you to engage in the class either in the class itself or on the other artifacts. class itself or on the other artifacts. class itself or on the other artifacts. So there'll be aspects of for instance So there'll be aspects of for instance So there'll be aspects of for instance giving feedback on the textbook on giving feedback on the textbook on giving feedback on the textbook on GitHub. Um there will be aspects of uh GitHub. Um there will be aspects of uh GitHub. Um there will be aspects of uh engaging with questions and answers on engaging with questions and answers on engaging with questions and answers on ED and then there'll be yeah as already ED and then there'll be yeah as already ED and then there'll be yeah as already mentioned in-class participation. Um so mentioned in-class participation. Um so mentioned in-class participation. Um so I think that's that for logistics. She

[5:53] I think that's that for logistics. She I think that's that for logistics. She went a little bit faster than I planned. went a little bit faster than I planned. went a little bit faster than I planned. Um again for a class like this on sort Um again for a class like this on sort Um again for a class like this on sort of newish topics uh I think there's a of newish topics uh I think there's a of newish topics uh I think there's a lot to be gained by the discussion. So lot to be gained by the discussion. So lot to be gained by the discussion. So my pitch is consider coming anyway. uh my pitch is consider coming anyway. uh my pitch is consider coming anyway. uh and hopefully there'll be some value and hopefully there'll be some value and hopefully there'll be some value from engaging into the conversation in from engaging into the conversation in from engaging into the conversation in the class. Good question. The other the class. Good question. The other the class. Good question. The other thing to mention, if you're a CSPD thing to mention, if you're a CSPD thing to mention, if you're a CSPD student, uh this course counts for student, uh this course counts for student, uh this course counts for either your learning and modeling

[6:24] either your learning and modeling either your learning and modeling requirements or human and society requirements or human and society requirements or human and society requirements which may give you some requirements which may give you some requirements which may give you some sense of the kinds of material that we sense of the kinds of material that we sense of the kinds of material that we plan to cover. So, um you know, in the plan to cover. So, um you know, in the plan to cover. So, um you know, in the end, this is a technical course. So I end, this is a technical course. So I end, this is a technical course. So I think we'll always sort of fall back on think we'll always sort of fall back on think we'll always sort of fall back on uh machine learning fundamentals. Um uh machine learning fundamentals. Um uh machine learning fundamentals. Um however intentionally this is scoped as however intentionally this is scoped as however intentionally this is scoped as trying to think about what this means. trying to think about what this means. trying to think about what this means. Uh you know it's about learn from Uh you know it's about learn from Uh you know it's about learn from humans. There's going to be a bunch of humans. There's going to be a bunch of humans. There's going to be a bunch of work thinking about human engagement, work thinking about human engagement, work thinking about human engagement, societal considerations, a bunch of societal considerations, a bunch of societal considerations, a bunch of these other uh broader questions. So um

[6:57] these other uh broader questions. So um these other uh broader questions. So um we'll attempt this mix of broad and uh we'll attempt this mix of broad and uh we'll attempt this mix of broad and uh breath and depth at the same time with a breath and depth at the same time with a breath and depth at the same time with a slight bias towards breath in the slight bias towards breath in the slight bias towards breath in the material. material. material. &gt;&gt; Okay, other questions if not &gt;&gt; Okay, other questions if not &gt;&gt; Okay, other questions if not um yes um yes um yes &gt;&gt; I guess a little &gt;&gt; I guess a little &gt;&gt; I guess a little background like machine. &gt;&gt; Okay so this is background of the &gt;&gt; Okay so this is background of the instructors. Yeah, instructors. Yeah, instructors. Yeah, &gt;&gt; sure. Um, so I've been at Stanford a

[7:30] &gt;&gt; sure. Um, so I've been at Stanford a &gt;&gt; sure. Um, so I've been at Stanford a couple of years. Uh, I before that was couple of years. Uh, I before that was couple of years. Uh, I before that was professor University of Illinois. Um, professor University of Illinois. Um, professor University of Illinois. Um, relevant to this class, I relevant to this class, I relevant to this class, I have been working for a while on ways to have been working for a while on ways to have been working for a while on ways to get human preferences in sort of classic get human preferences in sort of classic get human preferences in sort of classic machine learning problems. So there's a machine learning problems. So there's a machine learning problems. So there's a framework we'll talk about briefly today framework we'll talk about briefly today framework we'll talk about briefly today as well called metricalistation as well called metricalistation as well called metricalistation that uh I worked on that tried to engage that uh I worked on that tried to engage that uh I worked on that tried to engage with these questions strongly related to with these questions strongly related to with these questions strongly related to folks in say RL that were doing MSRL and

[8:00] folks in say RL that were doing MSRL and folks in say RL that were doing MSRL and so these kinds of ideas in the so these kinds of ideas in the so these kinds of ideas in the ecosystem. Um you know all of this ecosystem. Um you know all of this ecosystem. Um you know all of this got exciting once again I think for many got exciting once again I think for many got exciting once again I think for many people with uh language models and uh people with uh language models and uh people with uh language models and uh sort of our LHF being a thing. Uh again sort of our LHF being a thing. Uh again sort of our LHF being a thing. Uh again we'll engage a little bit with this and we'll engage a little bit with this and we'll engage a little bit with this and try to place this in some context. Uh we try to place this in some context. Uh we try to place this in some context. Uh we do a little bit of work related to these do a little bit of work related to these do a little bit of work related to these kinds of questions. There's some kinds of questions. There's some kinds of questions. There's some interesting interesting interesting questions on sort of academia industry questions on sort of academia industry questions on sort of academia industry for these kinds of work that I actually

[8:30] for these kinds of work that I actually for these kinds of work that I actually hope were part of the discussion as we hope were part of the discussion as we hope were part of the discussion as we go through. I think that's also go through. I think that's also go through. I think that's also interesting. Um interesting. Um interesting. Um I think that's that for my background. I think that's that for my background. I think that's that for my background. I'm happy to go into any more depth. uh I'm happy to go into any more depth. uh I'm happy to go into any more depth. uh other teaching staff are free to say other teaching staff are free to say other teaching staff are free to say more about their backgrounds. Everyone more about their backgrounds. Everyone more about their backgrounds. Everyone has relevant experiences but has relevant experiences but has relevant experiences but &gt;&gt; you like it or &gt;&gt; you like it or &gt;&gt; you like it or &gt;&gt; um I I work on uh paper on this topic &gt;&gt; um I I work on uh paper on this topic &gt;&gt; um I I work on uh paper on this topic since 2023 was not too long ago. since 2023 was not too long ago. since 2023 was not too long ago. That's that's my background.

[9:01] That's that's my background. That's that's my background. &gt;&gt; So we'll go through the material for &gt;&gt; So we'll go through the material for &gt;&gt; So we'll go through the material for today. Uh again feel free to take a look today. Uh again feel free to take a look today. Uh again feel free to take a look at the textbook once you get a chance. at the textbook once you get a chance. at the textbook once you get a chance. So uh our goal today is an introduction So uh our goal today is an introduction So uh our goal today is an introduction um and go through some of the framing of um and go through some of the framing of um and go through some of the framing of the class and maybe set up some of uh the class and maybe set up some of uh the class and maybe set up some of uh how we'll think about the topics as we how we'll think about the topics as we how we'll think about the topics as we go through the next few lectures. Um go through the next few lectures. Um go through the next few lectures. Um so so so the broad area is still being defined the broad area is still being defined the broad area is still being defined but we attempted to mock up a definition

[9:33] but we attempted to mock up a definition but we attempted to mock up a definition that we can critique actually a little that we can critique actually a little that we can critique actually a little bit if folks are interested. Um but this bit if folks are interested. Um but this bit if folks are interested. Um but this class seeks to explore the challenge of class seeks to explore the challenge of class seeks to explore the challenge of efficiently and effectively eliciting uh efficiently and effectively eliciting uh efficiently and effectively eliciting uh values and preferences from individuals values and preferences from individuals values and preferences from individuals or groups or societies and embedding or groups or societies and embedding or groups or societies and embedding them within AI models and applications. them within AI models and applications. them within AI models and applications. Um our specific focus will be on some of Um our specific focus will be on some of Um our specific focus will be on some of the statistical and conceptual the statistical and conceptual the statistical and conceptual foundations and strategies for foundations and strategies for foundations and strategies for interactively quering humans to elicit interactively quering humans to elicit interactively quering humans to elicit information that can improve learning

[10:04] information that can improve learning information that can improve learning and applications. and applications. and applications. Um so you know as discussed and as Um so you know as discussed and as Um so you know as discussed and as framed um we'll think about many of the framed um we'll think about many of the framed um we'll think about many of the questions we'll think about in this questions we'll think about in this questions we'll think about in this class be sort of through the lens of the class be sort of through the lens of the class be sort of through the lens of the sort of machine learning question but we sort of machine learning question but we sort of machine learning question but we hope to meaningfully engage with uh hope to meaningfully engage with uh hope to meaningfully engage with uh broader impacts of this work um in terms broader impacts of this work um in terms broader impacts of this work um in terms of how it affects uh individual society of how it affects uh individual society of how it affects uh individual society all these kinds of questions. um the all these kinds of questions. um the all these kinds of questions. um the efficiently there is going to speak to efficiently there is going to speak to efficiently there is going to speak to uh some of the challenges of engaging

[10:34] uh some of the challenges of engaging uh some of the challenges of engaging with interacting with people and trying with interacting with people and trying with interacting with people and trying to do this with uh sort of as few to do this with uh sort of as few to do this with uh sort of as few interactions as possible. So uh there's interactions as possible. So uh there's interactions as possible. So uh there's a term query efficiency. We'll talk a term query efficiency. We'll talk a term query efficiency. We'll talk about this a little bit more that tries about this a little bit more that tries about this a little bit more that tries to ask questions when you can about sort to ask questions when you can about sort to ask questions when you can about sort of you know things like how many samples of you know things like how many samples of you know things like how many samples would you need how many interactions would you need how many interactions would you need how many interactions would you need to like get a particular would you need to like get a particular would you need to like get a particular estimate a particular function from estimate a particular function from estimate a particular function from interacting with interacting with interacting with some set of agents u and effectively some set of agents u and effectively some set of agents u and effectively thinking about the quality of the

[11:05] thinking about the quality of the thinking about the quality of the illustration process. So getting the illustration process. So getting the illustration process. So getting the signal from people. Um any questions on signal from people. Um any questions on signal from people. Um any questions on the setup broad framing any the setup broad framing any the setup broad framing any uh strong criticism or weak criticism of uh strong criticism or weak criticism of uh strong criticism or weak criticism of this thoughts? this thoughts? this thoughts? &gt;&gt; I guess &gt;&gt; I guess &gt;&gt; I guess curious like the word interactive seems like seems like some sort of like back and forth some sort of like back and forth some sort of like back and forth like like like excellent question.

[11:36] excellent question. excellent question. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is about &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is about &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question is about interactively and sort of why we stayed interactively and sort of why we stayed interactively and sort of why we stayed interactively. So I'll engage with this interactively. So I'll engage with this interactively. So I'll engage with this a little bit in a couple of slides but a little bit in a couple of slides but a little bit in a couple of slides but one one one uh from a certain point of view all of uh from a certain point of view all of uh from a certain point of view all of machine learning is learned from human machine learning is learned from human machine learning is learned from human preferences. So in fact it's not it preferences. So in fact it's not it preferences. So in fact it's not it doesn't narrow the field at all and the doesn't narrow the field at all and the doesn't narrow the field at all and the reason for this is a lot of what AI reason for this is a lot of what AI reason for this is a lot of what AI models machine learning models are models machine learning models are models machine learning models are trained to do are effectively to learn trained to do are effectively to learn trained to do are effectively to learn from signals that come from people. So from signals that come from people. So from signals that come from people. So you know many applications of machine you know many applications of machine you know many applications of machine learning are sort of say medical

[12:07] learning are sort of say medical learning are sort of say medical applications people label or actually applications people label or actually applications people label or actually almost all applications involve humans almost all applications involve humans almost all applications involve humans creating content of some kind and then creating content of some kind and then creating content of some kind and then we build models to uh mimic or we build models to uh mimic or we build models to uh mimic or approximate that content. Um so from approximate that content. Um so from approximate that content. Um so from that point of view all of machine that point of view all of machine that point of view all of machine learning is machine learning from human learning is machine learning from human learning is machine learning from human preferences. Um preferences. Um preferences. Um there's also I much more focused you there's also I much more focused you there's also I much more focused you know are we trying to build AI as some know are we trying to build AI as some know are we trying to build AI as some intelligence goal. We'll talk a bit intelligence goal. We'll talk a bit intelligence goal. We'll talk a bit about this in a little bit which again about this in a little bit which again about this in a little bit which again directly engages with the idea of directly engages with the idea of directly engages with the idea of learning from humans. Um here we're

[12:38] learning from humans. Um here we're learning from humans. Um here we're going to focus on going to focus on going to focus on uh settings where we're much more uh uh settings where we're much more uh uh settings where we're much more uh explicit and intentional about the human explicit and intentional about the human explicit and intentional about the human signal. Uh so I think of the settings signal. Uh so I think of the settings signal. Uh so I think of the settings where you know humans are labeling data where you know humans are labeling data where you know humans are labeling data uh and then you learn from that data as uh and then you learn from that data as uh and then you learn from that data as uh in some ways implicits. Um so there's uh in some ways implicits. Um so there's uh in some ways implicits. Um so there's a preference effect that will show up a preference effect that will show up a preference effect that will show up based on how uh wherever the data based on how uh wherever the data based on how uh wherever the data labeling is coming from. Um in this

[13:09] labeling is coming from. Um in this labeling is coming from. Um in this class we'll focus on the subset of these class we'll focus on the subset of these class we'll focus on the subset of these questions where the goal of the learning questions where the goal of the learning questions where the goal of the learning procedure is very explicitly about uh procedure is very explicitly about uh procedure is very explicitly about uh learning from preferences um often learning from preferences um often learning from preferences um often through interactive processes. So through interactive processes. So through interactive processes. So exactly as as you stated we'll focus on exactly as as you stated we'll focus on exactly as as you stated we'll focus on the sort of uh this seems the gap that's the sort of uh this seems the gap that's the sort of uh this seems the gap that's most interesting. I think this is again most interesting. I think this is again most interesting. I think this is again the motivation for this class and trying the motivation for this class and trying the motivation for this class and trying to think about these questions. Um it to think about these questions. Um it to think about these questions. Um it won't cover everything but that that won't cover everything but that that won't cover everything but that that will be our explicit focus. Thank you. will be our explicit focus. Thank you. will be our explicit focus. Thank you. It's a good question. It's a good question. It's a good question. &gt;&gt; I think I like it. I like the broadening

[13:39] &gt;&gt; I think I like it. I like the broadening &gt;&gt; I think I like it. I like the broadening of it because in so many real world um of it because in so many real world um of it because in so many real world um AI applications the data set is AI applications the data set is AI applications the data set is immutable and that's just not the real immutable and that's just not the real immutable and that's just not the real world and sampling from humans world and sampling from humans world and sampling from humans &gt;&gt; like the just the defense we just &gt;&gt; like the just the defense we just &gt;&gt; like the just the defense we just witnessed is humans don't agree with witnessed is humans don't agree with witnessed is humans don't agree with themselves 25% of the time. themselves 25% of the time. themselves 25% of the time. &gt;&gt; You give the same exact label depending &gt;&gt; You give the same exact label depending &gt;&gt; You give the same exact label depending on if you had lunch or not you get a on if you had lunch or not you get a on if you had lunch or not you get a different answer. different answer. different answer. &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so that we have, you know, &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so that we have, you know, &gt;&gt; Yeah. And so that we have, you know, bringing a distribution that models the bringing a distribution that models the bringing a distribution that models the actual labeling process of intern.

[14:13] actual labeling process of intern. actual labeling process of intern. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And so I like broadening to include that &gt;&gt; And so I like broadening to include that &gt;&gt; And so I like broadening to include that part that system into the into the part that system into the into the part that system into the into the entire thing. entire thing. entire thing. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Now this is a super interesting &gt;&gt; Yeah. Now this is a super interesting &gt;&gt; Yeah. Now this is a super interesting point. So we'll touch on this a bit. uh point. So we'll touch on this a bit. uh point. So we'll touch on this a bit. uh questions like um I guess inconsistency questions like um I guess inconsistency questions like um I guess inconsistency of humans and how to think about or of humans and how to think about or of humans and how to think about or human labels in many settings and some human labels in many settings and some human labels in many settings and some existing literature or ways of thinking existing literature or ways of thinking existing literature or ways of thinking about what this means, how to engage about what this means, how to engage about what this means, how to engage with this. Um we'll talk a bit about with this. Um we'll talk a bit about with this. Um we'll talk a bit about models. Now we choose Bernoli models. I

[14:43] models. Now we choose Bernoli models. I models. Now we choose Bernoli models. I don't know if that's the truth. Uh so don't know if that's the truth. Uh so don't know if that's the truth. Uh so we'll talk a bit about at least some we'll talk a bit about at least some we'll talk a bit about at least some framings that I think about this issue. framings that I think about this issue. framings that I think about this issue. But yeah, things like noise and and or But yeah, things like noise and and or But yeah, things like noise and and or at least uncertainty that comes from uh at least uncertainty that comes from uh at least uncertainty that comes from uh inconsistent uh signals from humans. inconsistent uh signals from humans. inconsistent uh signals from humans. Yeah, great point. Yeah, great point. Yeah, great point. Okay. So, Okay. So, Okay. So, uh as mentioned a little bit uh in the uh as mentioned a little bit uh in the uh as mentioned a little bit uh in the last slide, so our goal is to uh engage last slide, so our goal is to uh engage last slide, so our goal is to uh engage with both the foundations and a variety with both the foundations and a variety with both the foundations and a variety of strategies uh for interactively

[15:14] of strategies uh for interactively of strategies uh for interactively querying humans to elicit information querying humans to elicit information querying humans to elicit information that can improve some kind of learning that can improve some kind of learning that can improve some kind of learning goal or some kind of application. Um so goal or some kind of application. Um so goal or some kind of application. Um so we'll focus mostly on sort of uh we'll focus mostly on sort of uh we'll focus mostly on sort of uh learning systems that have a very learning systems that have a very learning systems that have a very explicit human in the loop components uh explicit human in the loop components uh explicit human in the loop components uh with some bias towards interactive kinds with some bias towards interactive kinds with some bias towards interactive kinds of systems. Um we'll engage a little bit of systems. Um we'll engage a little bit of systems. Um we'll engage a little bit with some of the foundations. So some of with some of the foundations. So some of with some of the foundations. So some of these come from economics uh psychology,

[15:44] these come from economics uh psychology, these come from economics uh psychology, marketing, statistics. Um we'll talk marketing, statistics. Um we'll talk marketing, statistics. Um we'll talk about applications. So you know front of about applications. So you know front of about applications. So you know front of mind for many of us are applications in mind for many of us are applications in mind for many of us are applications in language. So you know again learning language. So you know again learning language. So you know again learning preferences of rallies from people uh preferences of rallies from people uh preferences of rallies from people uh but also sort of uh but also sort of uh but also sort of uh long history of work in things like long history of work in things like long history of work in things like robotics and I don't remember what we robotics and I don't remember what we robotics and I don't remember what we meant by oh logistics yes okay so meant by oh logistics yes okay so meant by oh logistics yes okay so explicit logistics I don't think we'll explicit logistics I don't think we'll explicit logistics I don't think we'll talk much about logistics but the talk much about logistics but the talk much about logistics but the applications in logistics for instance applications in logistics for instance applications in logistics for instance uh where for instance you're trying to

[16:14] uh where for instance you're trying to uh where for instance you're trying to plan uh delivery or routing or things plan uh delivery or routing or things plan uh delivery or routing or things like that and you might take preferences like that and you might take preferences like that and you might take preferences into account and how you think through into account and how you think through into account and how you think through uh or explicitly elicit preferences as a uh or explicitly elicit preferences as a uh or explicitly elicit preferences as a way to improve things like routing uh way to improve things like routing uh way to improve things like routing uh models. models. models. All of these we'll focus on uh through All of these we'll focus on uh through All of these we'll focus on uh through the view of machine learning. So what the view of machine learning. So what the view of machine learning. So what this means is uh we'll try to set up the this means is uh we'll try to set up the this means is uh we'll try to set up the problem try to understand some of the problem try to understand some of the problem try to understand some of the angles of the problem and then we'll angles of the problem and then we'll angles of the problem and then we'll focus on questions related to things focus on questions related to things focus on questions related to things like modeling estimation evaluation uh

[16:45] like modeling estimation evaluation uh like modeling estimation evaluation uh questions within each of these problem questions within each of these problem questions within each of these problem settings. Um I think part of what this settings. Um I think part of what this settings. Um I think part of what this means and we'll talk through means and we'll talk through means and we'll talk through prerequisites a little bit is that prerequisites a little bit is that prerequisites a little bit is that there'll be an assumption that you're there'll be an assumption that you're there'll be an assumption that you're comfortable with the basics of machine comfortable with the basics of machine comfortable with the basics of machine learning um enough to sort of write some learning um enough to sort of write some learning um enough to sort of write some simple programs and uh build simple simple programs and uh build simple simple programs and uh build simple machine learning models. So you know machine learning models. So you know machine learning models. So you know train test validation splits should not train test validation splits should not train test validation splits should not be surprising to you. If they are we be surprising to you. If they are we be surprising to you. If they are we should have a quick chat. Logistic should have a quick chat. Logistic should have a quick chat. Logistic regression should not be surprising to regression should not be surprising to regression should not be surprising to you. Um you should have taken this

[17:16] you. Um you should have taken this you. Um you should have taken this class. If it is again we'll have a we class. If it is again we'll have a we class. If it is again we'll have a we should chat to make sure uh things would should chat to make sure uh things would should chat to make sure uh things would be a good fit. Um so again you know be a good fit. Um so again you know be a good fit. Um so again you know we'll need that component and so we'll we'll need that component and so we'll we'll need that component and so we'll think about this as meaningful part of think about this as meaningful part of think about this as meaningful part of the problem. Uh the next aspect of this the problem. Uh the next aspect of this the problem. Uh the next aspect of this so the second arm of this is thinking so the second arm of this is thinking so the second arm of this is thinking about what this means in terms of human about what this means in terms of human about what this means in terms of human preferences. So what does how do we preferences. So what does how do we preferences. So what does how do we think about humans in here? Um, I think think about humans in here? Um, I think think about humans in here? Um, I think it's an interesting thing because, uh, it's an interesting thing because, uh, it's an interesting thing because, uh, depending on where you sit in the sort depending on where you sit in the sort depending on where you sit in the sort of MLA world, I think we have some

[17:48] of MLA world, I think we have some of MLA world, I think we have some aversion to think about humans, even aversion to think about humans, even aversion to think about humans, even though humans are everywhere. Um, so though humans are everywhere. Um, so though humans are everywhere. Um, so you'll see this in in how many of uh you you'll see this in in how many of uh you you'll see this in in how many of uh you might or even your colleagues engage might or even your colleagues engage might or even your colleagues engage with some of these questions. Um, with some of these questions. Um, with some of these questions. Um, there's an argument made, in fact, I was there's an argument made, in fact, I was there's an argument made, in fact, I was on a panel last week where someone made on a panel last week where someone made on a panel last week where someone made a ambitious statement. They said, I a ambitious statement. They said, I a ambitious statement. They said, I don't know if this will be true, but don't know if this will be true, but don't know if this will be true, but maybe food for thought for the group. maybe food for thought for the group. maybe food for thought for the group. They said, uh, you know, within They said, uh, you know, within They said, uh, you know, within a generation, I don't know what a a generation, I don't know what a a generation, I don't know what a generation might mean, maybe 5 to 10 generation might mean, maybe 5 to 10 generation might mean, maybe 5 to 10 years, they think all of AI will be HCI.

[18:19] years, they think all of AI will be HCI. years, they think all of AI will be HCI. And so, actually, there won't be an AI And so, actually, there won't be an AI And so, actually, there won't be an AI thing anymore in the sense that all the thing anymore in the sense that all the thing anymore in the sense that all the hardest and most interesting questions hardest and most interesting questions hardest and most interesting questions will be about human computer will be about human computer will be about human computer interaction. I think there's a plausible interaction. I think there's a plausible interaction. I think there's a plausible case to be made for this. I think you case to be made for this. I think you case to be made for this. I think you know we've made meaningful progress on know we've made meaningful progress on know we've made meaningful progress on the pure algorithmic side and many of the pure algorithmic side and many of the pure algorithmic side and many of the questions that seem important to try the questions that seem important to try the questions that seem important to try to solve to get to uh applications or to solve to get to uh applications or to solve to get to uh applications or impacts that we want seem bottlenecked impacts that we want seem bottlenecked impacts that we want seem bottlenecked by how we think about humans within our by how we think about humans within our by how we think about humans within our deployed systems. So we'll try to think

[18:49] deployed systems. So we'll try to think deployed systems. So we'll try to think about this a bit. Uh again some of this about this a bit. Uh again some of this about this a bit. Uh again some of this will be grounded in literature so we'll will be grounded in literature so we'll will be grounded in literature so we'll have papers for you to read but some of have papers for you to read but some of have papers for you to read but some of this will also be just discussion in the this will also be just discussion in the this will also be just discussion in the class and think about these questions. class and think about these questions. class and think about these questions. Um so a bunch of you know sub questions Um so a bunch of you know sub questions Um so a bunch of you know sub questions show up various aspects of biases I show up various aspects of biases I show up various aspects of biases I think you brought up um or questions of think you brought up um or questions of think you brought up um or questions of uh you know to what extent should we uh you know to what extent should we uh you know to what extent should we assume rationality in the humans is that assume rationality in the humans is that assume rationality in the humans is that a good assumption or does it break uh a good assumption or does it break uh a good assumption or does it break uh questions of thinking of uh human errors questions of thinking of uh human errors questions of thinking of uh human errors as noise and when that might be or not

[19:21] as noise and when that might be or not as noise and when that might be or not be a good or bad assumption uh various be a good or bad assumption uh various be a good or bad assumption uh various kinds of notions of correctness kinds of notions of correctness kinds of notions of correctness expertise uh and human uh engagement expertise uh and human uh engagement expertise uh and human uh engagement with AI systems. with AI systems. with AI systems. Um, we're going to engage with questions Um, we're going to engage with questions Um, we're going to engage with questions of uh, so often the questions change if of uh, so often the questions change if of uh, so often the questions change if it's a human or a group of humans or it's a human or a group of humans or it's a human or a group of humans or like a broad societal uh, context. So, like a broad societal uh, context. So, like a broad societal uh, context. So, we'll attempt to engage in all of these we'll attempt to engage in all of these we'll attempt to engage in all of these questions. There's some balance based on questions. There's some balance based on questions. There's some balance based on uh, expertise, literature, preferences,

[19:51] uh, expertise, literature, preferences, uh, expertise, literature, preferences, though again something we're open to though again something we're open to though again something we're open to adjusting based on feedback from the adjusting based on feedback from the adjusting based on feedback from the class. Um so questions for instance if class. Um so questions for instance if class. Um so questions for instance if I'm interested in listening a preference I'm interested in listening a preference I'm interested in listening a preference uh you know does the problem change if uh you know does the problem change if uh you know does the problem change if I'm trying to get your preference as an I'm trying to get your preference as an I'm trying to get your preference as an individual versus the whole classes individual versus the whole classes individual versus the whole classes preference how do I deal with the fact preference how do I deal with the fact preference how do I deal with the fact that we won't agree on many things uh that we won't agree on many things uh that we won't agree on many things uh about for instance size of groups for about for instance size of groups for about for instance size of groups for projects uh and you know what does it projects uh and you know what does it projects uh and you know what does it look like to think of a synthesis and look like to think of a synthesis and look like to think of a synthesis and aggregation of preferences and uh think aggregation of preferences and uh think aggregation of preferences and uh think about this in ways that might get at

[20:22] about this in ways that might get at about this in ways that might get at broader values what does this look like broader values what does this look like broader values what does this look like in terms in terms in terms strategic agents that may be trying to strategic agents that may be trying to strategic agents that may be trying to gain some coordination system and how gain some coordination system and how gain some coordination system and how can we uh are there settings that we can can we uh are there settings that we can can we uh are there settings that we can build tools to engage with these kinds build tools to engage with these kinds build tools to engage with these kinds of questions. Um the last bit but I of questions. Um the last bit but I of questions. Um the last bit but I think quite important is that uh the think quite important is that uh the think quite important is that uh the nature of this class will mean that in nature of this class will mean that in nature of this class will mean that in many settings we'll have to think uh many settings we'll have to think uh many settings we'll have to think uh although almost always be a meaningful although almost always be a meaningful although almost always be a meaningful ethical angle that we'll try to think ethical angle that we'll try to think ethical angle that we'll try to think through. Um so this shows up in a bunch

[20:53] through. Um so this shows up in a bunch through. Um so this shows up in a bunch of different ways. I have a few examples of different ways. I have a few examples of different ways. I have a few examples here. Um, but for instance, questions of here. Um, but for instance, questions of here. Um, but for instance, questions of humans. So if you're building a system, humans. So if you're building a system, humans. So if you're building a system, you're going to deploy it. Uh, you're going to deploy it. Uh, you're going to deploy it. Uh, you pick who is going to give you signal you pick who is going to give you signal you pick who is going to give you signal and whose preference you're going to try and whose preference you're going to try and whose preference you're going to try to get the model to align with and that to get the model to align with and that to get the model to align with and that choice has an effect downstream. So you choice has an effect downstream. So you choice has an effect downstream. So you know which humans you're getting know which humans you're getting know which humans you're getting preferences from has some meaningful preferences from has some meaningful preferences from has some meaningful effect. Um, some of this, you know, can effect. Um, some of this, you know, can effect. Um, some of this, you know, can be positive. Some of this can be tricky

[21:24] be positive. Some of this can be tricky be positive. Some of this can be tricky and look exploitative. Um we'll try to and look exploitative. Um we'll try to and look exploitative. Um we'll try to engage a little bit with aspects of all engage a little bit with aspects of all engage a little bit with aspects of all these questions and uh you know not shy these questions and uh you know not shy these questions and uh you know not shy away from sort of ethical questions that away from sort of ethical questions that away from sort of ethical questions that might be part of what it means to do might be part of what it means to do might be part of what it means to do modern AI and engage with learning from modern AI and engage with learning from modern AI and engage with learning from human preferences. Okay, I'll pause for human preferences. Okay, I'll pause for human preferences. Okay, I'll pause for questions or reactions. questions or reactions. questions or reactions. Uh I have a question the last part as we Uh I have a question the last part as we Uh I have a question the last part as we say that we often do data sampling to say that we often do data sampling to say that we often do data sampling to like uh where we uh make sure the data

[21:54] like uh where we uh make sure the data like uh where we uh make sure the data is coming from different scenarios and is coming from different scenarios and is coming from different scenarios and uh different uh sectors so that a model uh different uh sectors so that a model uh different uh sectors so that a model is trained to handle all sort of edge is trained to handle all sort of edge is trained to handle all sort of edge cases. Do we also will come up in this cases. Do we also will come up in this cases. Do we also will come up in this course with some kind of human um uh course with some kind of human um uh course with some kind of human um uh like like human um sampling where like like like human um sampling where like like like human um sampling where like we we make sure that we are taking a we we make sure that we are taking a we we make sure that we are taking a consideration of different groups of consideration of different groups of consideration of different groups of humans for that human preferences to be humans for that human preferences to be humans for that human preferences to be actual sort of in true sense ethical actual sort of in true sense ethical actual sort of in true sense ethical human preferences from all groups. human preferences from all groups. human preferences from all groups. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a great question. So this

[22:25] &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a great question. So this &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a great question. So this question of you know if we're framing question of you know if we're framing question of you know if we're framing this question in terms of ethics and this question in terms of ethics and this question in terms of ethics and maybe representation across different maybe representation across different maybe representation across different subgroups are we going to engage in uh subgroups are we going to engage in uh subgroups are we going to engage in uh methods that allow to think about this methods that allow to think about this methods that allow to think about this question carefully um we'll touch on it question carefully um we'll touch on it question carefully um we'll touch on it a little bit so we have at least one a little bit so we have at least one a little bit so we have at least one lecture that engages the question I lecture that engages the question I lecture that engages the question I don't think deeply enough and I think don't think deeply enough and I think don't think deeply enough and I think this is actually a really good so I this is actually a really good so I this is actually a really good so I don't think lit literature is complete don't think lit literature is complete don't think lit literature is complete on this question there's a bit of work on this question there's a bit of work on this question there's a bit of work we'll will I think add to references

[22:55] we'll will I think add to references we'll will I think add to references some of the work uh given the interest some of the work uh given the interest some of the work uh given the interest that thinks about uh versions of this that thinks about uh versions of this that thinks about uh versions of this human preference learning uh when you human preference learning uh when you human preference learning uh when you have different groups and thinking about have different groups and thinking about have different groups and thinking about this question of say representative this question of say representative this question of say representative sampling um or other ways to think about sampling um or other ways to think about sampling um or other ways to think about balancing preferences across groups um balancing preferences across groups um balancing preferences across groups um but I'll also mention that I think this but I'll also mention that I think this but I'll also mention that I think this is one of those areas that the field at is one of those areas that the field at is one of those areas that the field at least the MLA sub field is very fairly least the MLA sub field is very fairly least the MLA sub field is very fairly early on other folks have thought about early on other folks have thought about early on other folks have thought about this a there's some work economics this a there's some work economics this a there's some work economics there's sort of work in ethics broadly

[23:27] there's sort of work in ethics broadly there's sort of work in ethics broadly you're thinking about these questions I you're thinking about these questions I you're thinking about these questions I think it's a great project direction if think it's a great project direction if think it's a great project direction if you're thinking about projects uh ways you're thinking about projects uh ways you're thinking about projects uh ways of engaging with uh getting preferences of engaging with uh getting preferences of engaging with uh getting preferences across diverse groups it's a good across diverse groups it's a good across diverse groups it's a good question question question &gt;&gt; okay yes along the line of individual &gt;&gt; okay yes along the line of individual &gt;&gt; okay yes along the line of individual sampling is there but Yeah, this is a fascinating but Yeah, this is a fascinating question. Um, so the question is, you

[23:57] question. Um, so the question is, you question. Um, so the question is, you know, uh I guess there's a whole know, uh I guess there's a whole know, uh I guess there's a whole literature on learning with limited literature on learning with limited literature on learning with limited samples and uh so limited data of samples and uh so limited data of samples and uh so limited data of various kinds. To what extent are we various kinds. To what extent are we various kinds. To what extent are we going to engage with that? So I think going to engage with that? So I think going to engage with that? So I think we'll this is a good I hadn't thought we'll this is a good I hadn't thought we'll this is a good I hadn't thought about this very specific. I actually about this very specific. I actually about this very specific. I actually like that question a lot. We'll engage like that question a lot. We'll engage like that question a lot. We'll engage with this implicitly because in almost with this implicitly because in almost with this implicitly because in almost all settings the learning problems that all settings the learning problems that all settings the learning problems that we'll set up will like by construction we'll set up will like by construction we'll set up will like by construction require learning with limited samples. require learning with limited samples. require learning with limited samples. Uh again engaging with some of what I Uh again engaging with some of what I Uh again engaging with some of what I mentioned before about sort of quering

[24:27] mentioned before about sort of quering mentioned before about sort of quering humans can be expensive and so uh we're humans can be expensive and so uh we're humans can be expensive and so uh we're often under some budget constraint on often under some budget constraint on often under some budget constraint on sample size. Um yeah, it would be good to actually think yeah, it would be good to actually think about uh maybe being more explicit about about uh maybe being more explicit about about uh maybe being more explicit about that part of the framing. It'll be that part of the framing. It'll be that part of the framing. It'll be implicit in problems where we hadn't implicit in problems where we hadn't implicit in problems where we hadn't planned to be that explicit, but it's an planned to be that explicit, but it's an planned to be that explicit, but it's an excellent excellent question and it'll excellent excellent question and it'll excellent excellent question and it'll show up everywhere. So I'm going solve show up everywhere. So I'm going solve show up everywhere. So I'm going solve settings. We'll need to learn with settings. We'll need to learn with settings. We'll need to learn with limited data. We'll be using some of the limited data. We'll be using some of the limited data. We'll be using some of the tricks of the trade. So pre-training,

[24:57] tricks of the trade. So pre-training, tricks of the trade. So pre-training, foundation models, all that kind of foundation models, all that kind of foundation models, all that kind of stuff. stuff. stuff. Um yeah, great question. Thank you. Yes. Um yeah, great question. Thank you. Yes. Um yeah, great question. Thank you. Yes. &gt;&gt; Um, you mentioned it would be a good &gt;&gt; Um, you mentioned it would be a good &gt;&gt; Um, you mentioned it would be a good topic to explore for the final project. topic to explore for the final project. topic to explore for the final project. It made me wonder are most of the final It made me wonder are most of the final It made me wonder are most of the final projects like coding projects that are projects like coding projects that are projects like coding projects that are outputed or are they more research on outputed or are they more research on outputed or are they more research on like theoretical questions or what's like theoretical questions or what's like theoretical questions or what's kind of the scope of that? kind of the scope of that? kind of the scope of that? &gt;&gt; Yeah, we'll have more. So, this is like &gt;&gt; Yeah, we'll have more. So, this is like &gt;&gt; Yeah, we'll have more. So, this is like what does the project look like? what does the project look like? what does the project look like? We have a pretty wide breath of things

[25:28] We have a pretty wide breath of things We have a pretty wide breath of things that would be considered good projects. that would be considered good projects. that would be considered good projects. We'll try to get feedback all the way We'll try to get feedback all the way We'll try to get feedback all the way through. We will have documentation this through. We will have documentation this through. We will have documentation this week as well uh saying a bit about our week as well uh saying a bit about our week as well uh saying a bit about our perspective on uh what makes a good perspective on uh what makes a good perspective on uh what makes a good final project. But to your question, uh final project. But to your question, uh final project. But to your question, uh theoretical research makes sense. theoretical research makes sense. theoretical research makes sense. Critical examination of a field makes Critical examination of a field makes Critical examination of a field makes sense. In some settings, literature sense. In some settings, literature sense. In some settings, literature survey might make sense. So late surveys survey might make sense. So late surveys survey might make sense. So late surveys are harder than people give it credit are harder than people give it credit are harder than people give it credit for. I'll just say that up front. People for. I'll just say that up front. People for. I'll just say that up front. People think it's a easy uh way to engage.

[25:59] think it's a easy uh way to engage. think it's a easy uh way to engage. actually think a good lit survey is actually think a good lit survey is actually think a good lit survey is quite hard. Um or technical science quite hard. Um or technical science quite hard. Um or technical science technical research with sort of a code technical research with sort of a code technical research with sort of a code or uh some other program artifact all or uh some other program artifact all or uh some other program artifact all these will be in scope. Okay. Uh and also applications we think Okay. Uh and also applications we think about you know this is an area that about you know this is an area that about you know this is an area that seems to touch lots of different seems to touch lots of different seems to touch lots of different application areas. So um you know I application areas. So um you know I application areas. So um you know I think most of you end up at least from think most of you end up at least from think most of you end up at least from limited one one quarter of experience

[26:31] limited one one quarter of experience limited one one quarter of experience and also just the zeitgeist I think most and also just the zeitgeist I think most and also just the zeitgeist I think most people will end up in a language but people will end up in a language but people will end up in a language but vision makes sense makes sense. Uh vision makes sense makes sense. Uh vision makes sense makes sense. Uh there's a really fun application I'll there's a really fun application I'll there's a really fun application I'll see if we can get someone to show up but see if we can get someone to show up but see if we can get someone to show up but there's some applications in sort of there's some applications in sort of there's some applications in sort of legal and policy that I learned about legal and policy that I learned about legal and policy that I learned about recently that are kind of cool. Um, so recently that are kind of cool. Um, so recently that are kind of cool. Um, so yeah, bunch of different areas uh that yeah, bunch of different areas uh that yeah, bunch of different areas uh that you can imagine applying these kinds of you can imagine applying these kinds of you can imagine applying these kinds of tools. So feel free to expand, explore, tools. So feel free to expand, explore, tools. So feel free to expand, explore, all that fun stuff. all that fun stuff. all that fun stuff. &gt;&gt; There was the project of last year is

[27:01] &gt;&gt; There was the project of last year is &gt;&gt; There was the project of last year is still up on medium. still up on medium. still up on medium. &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Yes, we should add that link &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Yes, we should add that link &gt;&gt; Oh, okay. Yes, we should add that link somewhere. somewhere. somewhere. &gt;&gt; So if you want to find project of last &gt;&gt; So if you want to find project of last &gt;&gt; So if you want to find project of last year, you can I can forward over it's year, you can I can forward over it's year, you can I can forward over it's searchable on the internet. searchable on the internet. searchable on the internet. &gt;&gt; Cool. &gt;&gt; Cool. &gt;&gt; Cool. Everyone searches. It's great. Everyone searches. It's great. Everyone searches. It's great. Okay. Okay. So, what else to say? So, Okay. Okay. So, what else to say? So, Okay. Okay. So, what else to say? So, you know, this is a you know, this is a you know, this is a emerging topic in some ways. I think the emerging topic in some ways. I think the emerging topic in some ways. I think the edges of the topic are unclear. Um,

[27:32] edges of the topic are unclear. Um, edges of the topic are unclear. Um, it's also broad. We're not going to try it's also broad. We're not going to try it's also broad. We're not going to try to be exhaustive. We have some breath to be exhaustive. We have some breath to be exhaustive. We have some breath bias, so we'll try to cover lots of bias, so we'll try to cover lots of bias, so we'll try to cover lots of different topics. Uh, but we don't different topics. Uh, but we don't different topics. Uh, but we don't expect that we can cover everything expect that we can cover everything expect that we can cover everything that's relevant to this question. Um so that's relevant to this question. Um so that's relevant to this question. Um so you know some other aspects of this so I you know some other aspects of this so I you know some other aspects of this so I talked about this at the beginning a talked about this at the beginning a talked about this at the beginning a little bit but in some ways all of AI little bit but in some ways all of AI little bit but in some ways all of AI you can think of as learn from your you can think of as learn from your you can think of as learn from your preferences so in some sense as a catch preferences so in some sense as a catch preferences so in some sense as a catch all uh we'll avoid lots of that part of

[28:02] all uh we'll avoid lots of that part of all uh we'll avoid lots of that part of the problem. Um the problem. Um the problem. Um there's also you know beyond the data there's also you know beyond the data there's also you know beyond the data itself itself itself people in this room are the people who people in this room are the people who people in this room are the people who actually build machine learning and AI actually build machine learning and AI actually build machine learning and AI models. It's sometimes underappreciated models. It's sometimes underappreciated models. It's sometimes underappreciated uh how individual decision- making and uh how individual decision- making and uh how individual decision- making and choices actually has a meaningful impact choices actually has a meaningful impact choices actually has a meaningful impact on what the models what the actual on what the models what the actual on what the models what the actual models that come out of uh sort of some models that come out of uh sort of some models that come out of uh sort of some production process. So you know you're production process. So you know you're production process. So you know you're making choices about which problem you making choices about which problem you making choices about which problem you actually want to solve and what's actually want to solve and what's actually want to solve and what's feasible where you're going to go look

[28:32] feasible where you're going to go look feasible where you're going to go look for data what kinds of architectures for data what kinds of architectures for data what kinds of architectures what kinds of loss functions what kind what kinds of loss functions what kind what kinds of loss functions what kind of optimization algorithms all these are of optimization algorithms all these are of optimization algorithms all these are sort of individual decisions that have a sort of individual decisions that have a sort of individual decisions that have a meaningful impact on AI models. So again meaningful impact on AI models. So again meaningful impact on AI models. So again you know if you want to go the catch all you know if you want to go the catch all you know if you want to go the catch all this is a kind of learning from human this is a kind of learning from human this is a kind of learning from human preferences because as a designer you're preferences because as a designer you're preferences because as a designer you're making preference decisions about the making preference decisions about the making preference decisions about the algorithm for instance the data the loss algorithm for instance the data the loss algorithm for instance the data the loss functions uh this is not what we mean functions uh this is not what we mean functions uh this is not what we mean but you know want to say that this I but you know want to say that this I but you know want to say that this I think is also like a meaningful way of think is also like a meaningful way of think is also like a meaningful way of thinking about these kinds of questions thinking about these kinds of questions thinking about these kinds of questions um there's a bunch of work on things um there's a bunch of work on things um there's a bunch of work on things like model architectures so you know

[29:04] like model architectures so you know like model architectures so you know beyond high level problem definition but beyond high level problem definition but beyond high level problem definition but even things like how one builds uh most even things like how one builds uh most even things like how one builds uh most commonly in graphical models causal commonly in graphical models causal commonly in graphical models causal inference where you put a lot of inference where you put a lot of inference where you put a lot of inductive bias in models. But even uh inductive bias in models. But even uh inductive bias in models. But even uh more general framings uh often use more general framings uh often use more general framings uh often use expertise in various ways. You know expertise in various ways. You know expertise in various ways. You know people have argued for instance like people have argued for instance like people have argued for instance like convolutional networks were a thing convolutional networks were a thing convolutional networks were a thing because people noticed convolution was a because people noticed convolution was a because people noticed convolution was a good inductive bias and sort of matched good inductive bias and sort of matched good inductive bias and sort of matched to you know things about human vision to you know things about human vision to you know things about human vision for instance. So there are many ways for instance. So there are many ways for instance. So there are many ways that you can think about expert that you can think about expert that you can think about expert knowledge and inductive biases. Again

[29:34] knowledge and inductive biases. Again knowledge and inductive biases. Again we're not talking about that but want to we're not talking about that but want to we're not talking about that but want to mention that this uh is important. And mention that this uh is important. And mention that this uh is important. And then um we'll touch a little bit but uh then um we'll touch a little bit but uh then um we'll touch a little bit but uh we won't go into any meaningful depth on we won't go into any meaningful depth on we won't go into any meaningful depth on HCI problems broadly. I think it's super HCI problems broadly. I think it's super HCI problems broadly. I think it's super important. Uh the gap is partially important. Uh the gap is partially important. Uh the gap is partially expertise partially scope. So we won't expertise partially scope. So we won't expertise partially scope. So we won't sort of do uh super deep dive. I would sort of do uh super deep dive. I would sort of do uh super deep dive. I would say though you know experience or say though you know experience or say though you know experience or interest in hi will generally serve you interest in hi will generally serve you interest in hi will generally serve you well if this kind of topic is something well if this kind of topic is something well if this kind of topic is something that you're interested in. So you know

[30:04] that you're interested in. So you know that you're interested in. So you know questions about interface, questions questions about interface, questions questions about interface, questions about process, questions about things about process, questions about things about process, questions about things you know some of some of these are uh you know some of some of these are uh you know some of some of these are uh the wrote things like how do I design a the wrote things like how do I design a the wrote things like how do I design a study and get IRB approval many in the study and get IRB approval many in the study and get IRB approval many in the building or actually on campus don't building or actually on campus don't building or actually on campus don't know how to do this because we don't do know how to do this because we don't do know how to do this because we don't do it that often but if you're going to do it that often but if you're going to do it that often but if you're going to do work like this uh particularly if you're work like this uh particularly if you're work like this uh particularly if you're going to actually query humans that kind going to actually query humans that kind going to actually query humans that kind of experience can be very helpful. So of experience can be very helpful. So of experience can be very helpful. So some of you I expect you might consider some of you I expect you might consider some of you I expect you might consider projects that engage with those kinds of projects that engage with those kinds of projects that engage with those kinds of questions encouraging that as something questions encouraging that as something questions encouraging that as something you might think.

[30:35] you might think. you might think. Okay. Um so just thinking broadly again Okay. Um so just thinking broadly again Okay. Um so just thinking broadly again this broad framing of uh human feedback this broad framing of uh human feedback this broad framing of uh human feedback shows up everywhere. Uh so I'm showing a shows up everywhere. Uh so I'm showing a shows up everywhere. Uh so I'm showing a figure a nice figure out of a recent figure a nice figure out of a recent figure a nice figure out of a recent paper um borrowing some slides from paper um borrowing some slides from paper um borrowing some slides from colleague D talking about uh how human colleague D talking about uh how human colleague D talking about uh how human feedback shapes a lot of the explicit feedback shapes a lot of the explicit feedback shapes a lot of the explicit machine learning process. So as machine learning process. So as machine learning process. So as mentioned already, but things like data mentioned already, but things like data mentioned already, but things like data selection, labeling, model selection, selection, labeling, model selection, selection, labeling, model selection, training, evaluation, deployment, training, evaluation, deployment, training, evaluation, deployment, context. Um there's a bunch of good work

[31:07] context. Um there's a bunch of good work context. Um there's a bunch of good work taxonomizing ways that human uh taxonomizing ways that human uh taxonomizing ways that human uh sort of human preferences end up shaping sort of human preferences end up shaping sort of human preferences end up shaping what we're building in machine learning what we're building in machine learning what we're building in machine learning models. Again, I won't talk too deeply models. Again, I won't talk too deeply models. Again, I won't talk too deeply about this, but I want to mention this about this, but I want to mention this about this, but I want to mention this for uh grounding my statement about uh for uh grounding my statement about uh for uh grounding my statement about uh human preferences playing a big role in human preferences playing a big role in human preferences playing a big role in lots of what we do when we're building lots of what we do when we're building lots of what we do when we're building models. So all the way from uh how we models. So all the way from uh how we models. So all the way from uh how we construct data sets and how we might construct data sets and how we might construct data sets and how we might think about uh questions on know things think about uh questions on know things think about uh questions on know things like synthetic data for instance often

[31:38] like synthetic data for instance often like synthetic data for instance often have explicit and sort of uh judgments have explicit and sort of uh judgments have explicit and sort of uh judgments and decision- making uh within it all and decision- making uh within it all and decision- making uh within it all the way to things like how we specify the way to things like how we specify the way to things like how we specify constraints of various kinds or real constraints of various kinds or real constraints of various kinds or real world constraints embedding into models world constraints embedding into models world constraints embedding into models um various ways of adapting models and um various ways of adapting models and um various ways of adapting models and so forth and so I'm mentioning it's also so forth and so I'm mentioning it's also so forth and so I'm mentioning it's also because again out of scope for class, because again out of scope for class, because again out of scope for class, but there's also there's a bunch of work but there's also there's a bunch of work but there's also there's a bunch of work that thinks about uh ways to capture that thinks about uh ways to capture that thinks about uh ways to capture human preferences to engage with human preferences to engage with human preferences to engage with everything on this page. So, know

[32:09] everything on this page. So, know everything on this page. So, know there's work on uh istation mechanisms there's work on uh istation mechanisms there's work on uh istation mechanisms for constraint specification for for constraint specification for for constraint specification for instance uh which we're not going to instance uh which we're not going to instance uh which we're not going to talk about that much but I think is a talk about that much but I think is a talk about that much but I think is a very important subset of problems for very important subset of problems for very important subset of problems for various uh for instance in logistics um various uh for instance in logistics um various uh for instance in logistics um problems and planning. problems and planning. problems and planning. Okay. So, examples and applications. Um, Okay. So, examples and applications. Um, Okay. So, examples and applications. Um, hoping some of this uh also to learn hoping some of this uh also to learn hoping some of this uh also to learn from you because I often learn some cool from you because I often learn some cool from you because I often learn some cool new things from this. Uh, so just get new things from this. Uh, so just get new things from this. Uh, so just get the elephant out of the way. GPT uh got

[32:39] the elephant out of the way. GPT uh got the elephant out of the way. GPT uh got a lot more people excited about what it a lot more people excited about what it a lot more people excited about what it means feedback. Um, means feedback. Um, means feedback. Um, in many ways it's been argued depending in many ways it's been argued depending in many ways it's been argued depending on where you stand. It's this on where you stand. It's this on where you stand. It's this revisionist thing. Did we expect it? Did revisionist thing. Did we expect it? Did revisionist thing. Did we expect it? Did we not? I don't know. uh but of the many we not? I don't know. uh but of the many we not? I don't know. uh but of the many innovations that got this to work in a innovations that got this to work in a innovations that got this to work in a sense of you know people getting good sense of you know people getting good sense of you know people getting good experiences engaging with a language experiences engaging with a language experiences engaging with a language model uh it's been argued quite strongly model uh it's been argued quite strongly model uh it's been argued quite strongly that uh a lot of the work on trying to that uh a lot of the work on trying to that uh a lot of the work on trying to align to human preferences via things

[33:10] align to human preferences via things align to human preferences via things like our made a big difference so I like our made a big difference so I like our made a big difference so I think again some of this reinvig think again some of this reinvig think again some of this reinvig reinvigorated reinvigorated reinvigorated interest in this area and uh yeah interest in this area and uh yeah interest in this area and uh yeah um a lot of this work builds on you know um a lot of this work builds on you know um a lot of this work builds on you know long history of work. Um so some of it a long history of work. Um so some of it a long history of work. Um so some of it a lot of it's particularly for language lot of it's particularly for language lot of it's particularly for language models and various mechanisms for models and various mechanisms for models and various mechanisms for capturing feedback uh and building capturing feedback uh and building capturing feedback uh and building language models. So I think to the language models. So I think to the language models. So I think to the earlier there was a comment or question earlier there was a comment or question earlier there was a comment or question earlier um but you know things like

[33:42] earlier um but you know things like earlier um but you know things like document level interaction document level interaction document level interaction um label consistency queries from humans um label consistency queries from humans um label consistency queries from humans or experts um word level interaction. So or experts um word level interaction. So or experts um word level interaction. So you know I build I have some language you know I build I have some language you know I build I have some language model. Uh can I have a human tell me model. Uh can I have a human tell me model. Uh can I have a human tell me which terms are most influential or which terms are most influential or which terms are most influential or label uh those terms within language label uh those terms within language label uh those terms within language system. Can a human help in thinking of system. Can a human help in thinking of system. Can a human help in thinking of which features to add or remove uh based which features to add or remove uh based which features to add or remove uh based on what we think might be important? on what we think might be important? on what we think might be important? again still an important part of most uh again still an important part of most uh again still an important part of most uh sort of MLOps frameworks and like large sort of MLOps frameworks and like large

[34:12] sort of MLOps frameworks and like large scale deployed systems uh you know some scale deployed systems uh you know some scale deployed systems uh you know some human intuition about what might be human intuition about what might be human intuition about what might be important features um all the way to important features um all the way to important features um all the way to things like uh humans trying to help things like uh humans trying to help things like uh humans trying to help select model parameters select model parameters select model parameters uh thinking about both the measurement uh thinking about both the measurement uh thinking about both the measurement and then sort of feedback on where and then sort of feedback on where and then sort of feedback on where models are doing well or failing and models are doing well or failing and models are doing well or failing and using that signal to improve uh or using that signal to improve uh or using that signal to improve uh or explore across ranges of models. explore across ranges of models. explore across ranges of models. um examples of this. So versions of um examples of this. So versions of um examples of this. So versions of this, so again the references are in the

[34:42] this, so again the references are in the this, so again the references are in the slides. Feel free to take a look. U so slides. Feel free to take a look. U so slides. Feel free to take a look. U so things like uh things like uh things like uh trying to improve parsers by labeling uh trying to improve parsers by labeling uh trying to improve parsers by labeling uh sort of uh connections between different sort of uh connections between different sort of uh connections between different words. Pat ate the cake on the table words. Pat ate the cake on the table words. Pat ate the cake on the table that I baked last night. And the parser, that I baked last night. And the parser, that I baked last night. And the parser, you know, might say, I baked the table you know, might say, I baked the table you know, might say, I baked the table because it had an incorrect interaction because it had an incorrect interaction because it had an incorrect interaction between the term and sort of uh the noun between the term and sort of uh the noun between the term and sort of uh the noun that is supposed to be labeling. And you that is supposed to be labeling. And you that is supposed to be labeling. And you might correct this. So human might correct this. So human might correct this. So human understanding that baked the cake and

[35:13] understanding that baked the cake and understanding that baked the cake and you might include this within uh um a you might include this within uh um a you might include this within uh um a language model system as a way to language model system as a way to language model system as a way to improve its quality of parsing. So uh improve its quality of parsing. So uh improve its quality of parsing. So uh for instance getting parts of speech for instance getting parts of speech for instance getting parts of speech correct or just more generally trying to correct or just more generally trying to correct or just more generally trying to get um so the right structure in get um so the right structure in get um so the right structure in examining or explaining a sentence. So examining or explaining a sentence. So examining or explaining a sentence. So you know some of these are still you know some of these are still you know some of these are still important problems that are worked on important problems that are worked on important problems that are worked on independently. Arguably lots of these independently. Arguably lots of these independently. Arguably lots of these things language models seem to be much things language models seem to be much things language models seem to be much better at without as much explicit

[35:44] better at without as much explicit better at without as much explicit intervention. uh but some of these intervention. uh but some of these intervention. uh but some of these questions I think are still quite questions I think are still quite questions I think are still quite interesting. Think about how to frame interesting. Think about how to frame interesting. Think about how to frame and and some of these papers explicitly and and some of these papers explicitly and and some of these papers explicitly think about how to get feedback think about how to get feedback think about how to get feedback efficiently from people to improve efficiently from people to improve efficiently from people to improve systems that look like this. systems that look like this. systems that look like this. Um okay so other you know big line of Um okay so other you know big line of Um okay so other you know big line of work uh trying to engage with so we'll work uh trying to engage with so we'll work uh trying to engage with so we'll spend some time on this going through in spend some time on this going through in spend some time on this going through in some detail but it's useful to look at some detail but it's useful to look at some detail but it's useful to look at the some of the early descriptions of

[36:16] the some of the early descriptions of the some of the early descriptions of some of the work trying to improve some of the work trying to improve some of the work trying to improve learning from human preferences. Um so learning from human preferences. Um so learning from human preferences. Um so as many of you know in the standard as many of you know in the standard as many of you know in the standard framework we start with uh framework we start with uh framework we start with uh supervised supervised supervised learning from humans. So humans so I'm learning from humans. So humans so I'm learning from humans. So humans so I'm talking about language models now uh to talking about language models now uh to talking about language models now uh to give some context language model as many give some context language model as many give some context language model as many of you know you start with some of you know you start with some of you know you start with some pre-training generally you train a model pre-training generally you train a model pre-training generally you train a model to you know do a good job predicting to you know do a good job predicting to you know do a good job predicting next words on web data. Uh once you do next words on web data. Uh once you do next words on web data. Uh once you do that the st the common next step is

[36:47] that the st the common next step is that the st the common next step is supervised fine-tuning where you get um supervised fine-tuning where you get um supervised fine-tuning where you get um examples of sort of knowledgeable or at examples of sort of knowledgeable or at examples of sort of knowledgeable or at least uh or generally somewhat least uh or generally somewhat least uh or generally somewhat knowledgeable humans give to examples of knowledgeable humans give to examples of knowledgeable humans give to examples of questions and answers that uh might be questions and answers that uh might be questions and answers that uh might be relevant for a certain query. Um and relevant for a certain query. Um and relevant for a certain query. Um and then you get these sort of specialized then you get these sort of specialized then you get these sort of specialized examples. They're typically much examples. They're typically much examples. They're typically much smaller. So you know web data this is smaller. So you know web data this is smaller. So you know web data this is huge huge huge uh in terms of the token counts you go uh in terms of the token counts you go uh in terms of the token counts you go down to something order of often

[37:19] down to something order of often down to something order of often thousands of examples uh to do thousands of examples uh to do thousands of examples uh to do supervised fine tuning um where it the supervised fine tuning um where it the supervised fine tuning um where it the objective is still the same. is still objective is still the same. is still objective is still the same. is still doing sort of uh next prediction but the doing sort of uh next prediction but the doing sort of uh next prediction but the model gets better at uh question model gets better at uh question model gets better at uh question answering in general from this part of answering in general from this part of answering in general from this part of this process and then the next step is this process and then the next step is this process and then the next step is generally this comparison data. So this generally this comparison data. So this generally this comparison data. So this is thought of as querying humans to get is thought of as querying humans to get is thought of as querying humans to get some kind of preference signal between some kind of preference signal between some kind of preference signal between uh different kinds of completions for a

[37:49] uh different kinds of completions for a uh different kinds of completions for a certain query. Um there are various ways certain query. Um there are various ways certain query. Um there are various ways of doing it. uh sometimes the most of doing it. uh sometimes the most of doing it. uh sometimes the most commonly used approach is pair wise commonly used approach is pair wise commonly used approach is pair wise preferences. So I ask a human uh I have preferences. So I ask a human uh I have preferences. So I ask a human uh I have uh some framing some query I have a set uh some framing some query I have a set uh some framing some query I have a set of different completions uh I ask uh of different completions uh I ask uh of different completions uh I ask uh human what they prefer which of the human what they prefer which of the human what they prefer which of the completions they prefer. Um and then I completions they prefer. Um and then I completions they prefer. Um and then I train some model to sort of be better at train some model to sort of be better at train some model to sort of be better at responding with the preferred respon uh responding with the preferred respon uh responding with the preferred respon uh the preferred response I guess uh from

[38:20] the preferred response I guess uh from the preferred response I guess uh from either the pair or a set. So for either the pair or a set. So for either the pair or a set. So for instance, if you have four different instance, if you have four different instance, if you have four different possible responses, then you might ask possible responses, then you might ask possible responses, then you might ask the person to pick between the four. the person to pick between the four. the person to pick between the four. Typically, this is discrete choice. Typically, this is discrete choice. Typically, this is discrete choice. Typically, again, uh these are somewhat Typically, again, uh these are somewhat Typically, again, uh these are somewhat limited sets of samples. Um in this limited sets of samples. Um in this limited sets of samples. Um in this class, you know, all of these are class, you know, all of these are class, you know, all of these are important in training language models. important in training language models. important in training language models. We'll spend a bit more focus on the sort We'll spend a bit more focus on the sort We'll spend a bit more focus on the sort of step two version of this. So again, of step two version of this. So again, of step two version of this. So again, this interactive I think of the step one this interactive I think of the step one this interactive I think of the step one is mostly oneshots. So there's a bunch is mostly oneshots. So there's a bunch is mostly oneshots. So there's a bunch of work offline to query a bunch of

[38:51] of work offline to query a bunch of of work offline to query a bunch of people to sort of get good completion people to sort of get good completion people to sort of get good completion examples. Uh section two the step two is examples. Uh section two the step two is examples. Uh section two the step two is typically typically typically is best done interactively. Actually it is best done interactively. Actually it is best done interactively. Actually it would be good to engage with some of would be good to engage with some of would be good to engage with some of this uh in the sense that some versions this uh in the sense that some versions this uh in the sense that some versions of this work do stuff interactively some of this work do stuff interactively some of this work do stuff interactively some versions do stuff offline. Uh we'll versions do stuff offline. Uh we'll versions do stuff offline. Uh we'll we'll dive into some of the technical we'll dive into some of the technical we'll dive into some of the technical details of those differences over the details of those differences over the details of those differences over the course of the class. Um but in either course of the class. Um but in either course of the class. Um but in either case you know you get examples uh people case you know you get examples uh people case you know you get examples uh people label them in terms of preferences. Uh label them in terms of preferences. Uh label them in terms of preferences. Uh you can think about this narrowly in

[39:22] you can think about this narrowly in you can think about this narrowly in terms of narrow preferences for terms of narrow preferences for terms of narrow preferences for completions. You can about this more completions. You can about this more completions. You can about this more broadly as maybe embedding value somehow broadly as maybe embedding value somehow broadly as maybe embedding value somehow in terms of uh what they think a in terms of uh what they think a in terms of uh what they think a language model should be doing. Uh we'll language model should be doing. Uh we'll language model should be doing. Uh we'll try to engage in both of those try to engage in both of those try to engage in both of those perspectives of this question. And then perspectives of this question. And then perspectives of this question. And then uh the next step is sort of optimization uh the next step is sort of optimization uh the next step is sort of optimization step. Typically two and three are done step. Typically two and three are done step. Typically two and three are done together. uh which is a combination of together. uh which is a combination of together. uh which is a combination of um diverse mechanisms. The most popular um diverse mechanisms. The most popular um diverse mechanisms. The most popular one is uh using uh reinforcement one is uh using uh reinforcement one is uh using uh reinforcement learning strategy. So some like a PO learning strategy. So some like a PO learning strategy. So some like a PO algorithm. Um we'll touch a bit on this

[39:54] algorithm. Um we'll touch a bit on this algorithm. Um we'll touch a bit on this uh combined with trying to get uh combined with trying to get uh combined with trying to get preferences through um interaction and preferences through um interaction and preferences through um interaction and over the sequence you get the model gets over the sequence you get the model gets over the sequence you get the model gets better at getting uh high rewards. so better at getting uh high rewards. so better at getting uh high rewards. so gets better at the picking or or gets better at the picking or or gets better at the picking or or choosing a completion that's likely to choosing a completion that's likely to choosing a completion that's likely to be the same as what a human expert would be the same as what a human expert would be the same as what a human expert would have picked. Okay, any questions on have picked. Okay, any questions on have picked. Okay, any questions on discussion so far? We've outlined a few discussion so far? We've outlined a few discussion so far? We've outlined a few some of the literature existing work some of the literature existing work some of the literature existing work particularly within language particularly within language particularly within language particularly within uh that has engaged

[40:25] particularly within uh that has engaged particularly within uh that has engaged with thinking about learning from human with thinking about learning from human with thinking about learning from human preferences. Um any questions so far in preferences. Um any questions so far in preferences. Um any questions so far in the framing and how we think about the framing and how we think about the framing and how we think about topics? topics? topics? Yes. Yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; Yeah. How much will we do of like step &gt;&gt; Yeah. How much will we do of like step &gt;&gt; Yeah. How much will we do of like step three in terms of like training policies three in terms of like training policies three in terms of like training policies with the rewards? with the rewards? with the rewards? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, uh the question is how much &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, uh the question is how much &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, uh the question is how much will we do of step three? How much are will we do of step three? How much are will we do of step three? How much are we going to implement for instance our we going to implement for instance our we going to implement for instance our LHS? Uh the plan is a meaningful amount. LHS? Uh the plan is a meaningful amount. LHS? Uh the plan is a meaningful amount. I don't know how to answer that question I don't know how to answer that question I don't know how to answer that question actually more accurately than that. But

[40:55] actually more accurately than that. But actually more accurately than that. But our plan is to include implementation. our plan is to include implementation. our plan is to include implementation. So we'll we'll build clients to build So we'll we'll build clients to build So we'll we'll build clients to build some systems and actually so test things some systems and actually so test things some systems and actually so test things like this uh DPL other ways of doing like this uh DPL other ways of doing like this uh DPL other ways of doing sort of performance sort of performance sort of performance &gt;&gt; like on language models. &gt;&gt; like on language models. &gt;&gt; like on language models. &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um yes on language models. yes on language models. yes on language models. Um Um Um &gt;&gt; yeah so you have some work on homework &gt;&gt; yeah so you have some work on homework &gt;&gt; yeah so you have some work on homework uh definitely on project.

[41:28] Yeah, it's a good question. Okay. Uh Yeah, it's a good question. Okay. Uh other questions and or if anyone knows other questions and or if anyone knows other questions and or if anyone knows of other interesting applications that of other interesting applications that of other interesting applications that have similar flavor of human preference have similar flavor of human preference have similar flavor of human preference measurements uh to improve algorithmic measurements uh to improve algorithmic measurements uh to improve algorithmic systems be your favorite example. Yes. be your favorite example. Yes. &gt;&gt; I was wondering if like force learning &gt;&gt; I was wondering if like force learning &gt;&gt; I was wondering if like force learning from AI feedback would be like top. from AI feedback would be like top. from AI feedback would be like top. &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a good question. So uh you &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a good question. So uh you &gt;&gt; Yeah, it's a good question. So uh you know as a contrast to learning from

[41:58] know as a contrast to learning from know as a contrast to learning from human feedback there's also now work human feedback there's also now work human feedback there's also now work thinking about uh AI judgments. So for thinking about uh AI judgments. So for thinking about uh AI judgments. So for instance language model judgments as instance language model judgments as instance language model judgments as ways to improve models. Um we don't plan ways to improve models. Um we don't plan ways to improve models. Um we don't plan given the thesis of this class we don't given the thesis of this class we don't given the thesis of this class we don't plan to spend a lot of time on those. uh plan to spend a lot of time on those. uh plan to spend a lot of time on those. uh often the techniques at least the often the techniques at least the often the techniques at least the machine learning part of techniques are machine learning part of techniques are machine learning part of techniques are effectively the same uh with some effectively the same uh with some effectively the same uh with some differences in the query mechanisms uh differences in the query mechanisms uh differences in the query mechanisms uh so I think stuff will transfer over so I think stuff will transfer over so I think stuff will transfer over reasonably well uh but the plan is to

[42:29] reasonably well uh but the plan is to reasonably well uh but the plan is to focus much more on given feedback that's focus much more on given feedback that's focus much more on given feedback that's a good question we have um like GPUs to work with or run we have um like GPUs to work with or run credit credit credit &gt;&gt; this is a good question. So the question &gt;&gt; this is a good question. So the question &gt;&gt; this is a good question. So the question is, are we going to have GPUs or credits is, are we going to have GPUs or credits is, are we going to have GPUs or credits to work with? Working on it slower than to work with? Working on it slower than to work with? Working on it slower than I would like. Uh I would like. Uh I would like. Uh almost definitely have something. almost definitely have something. almost definitely have something. Uh the size and scope is not yet clear. Uh the size and scope is not yet clear. Uh the size and scope is not yet clear. Um but we'll try to figure this out

[43:00] Um but we'll try to figure this out Um but we'll try to figure this out before any meaningful computational before any meaningful computational before any meaningful computational homework or projects. homework or projects. homework or projects. Good question. The bottleneck of you Good question. The bottleneck of you Good question. The bottleneck of you know academic work in this space compute know academic work in this space compute know academic work in this space compute almost always. Yeah. almost always. Yeah. almost always. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Oh are the homeworks primarily &gt;&gt; Oh are the homeworks primarily &gt;&gt; Oh are the homeworks primarily implementation focus? implementation focus? implementation focus? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So are the homeworks &gt;&gt; Yeah. So are the homeworks &gt;&gt; Yeah. So are the homeworks implementation our plan is a mix uh some implementation our plan is a mix uh some implementation our plan is a mix uh some conceptual a fair amount of conceptual a fair amount of conceptual a fair amount of implementation. So in a lot of research like pure ML So in a lot of research like pure ML research um people don't usually go to

[43:31] research um people don't usually go to research um people don't usually go to like steps two and three where maybe like steps two and three where maybe like steps two and three where maybe it's like model architecture and they'll it's like model architecture and they'll it's like model architecture and they'll just do pre-training plus SFD. Um so I'm just do pre-training plus SFD. Um so I'm just do pre-training plus SFD. Um so I'm curious are there specific applications curious are there specific applications curious are there specific applications where like human preferences are just where like human preferences are just where like human preferences are just avoided um or at like industry level avoided um or at like industry level avoided um or at like industry level it's always done but on the research it's always done but on the research it's always done but on the research side. side. side. &gt;&gt; It's a great question. So the question &gt;&gt; It's a great question. So the question &gt;&gt; It's a great question. So the question is uh uh summary of the question um is uh uh summary of the question um is uh uh summary of the question um many ML applications don't do very many ML applications don't do very many ML applications don't do very explicit human preference uh is there

[44:03] explicit human preference uh is there explicit human preference uh is there some gap between some gap between some gap between I'll frame this as research versus I'll frame this as research versus I'll frame this as research versus academic work for many kinds of academic work for many kinds of academic work for many kinds of questions um so indeed questions um so indeed questions um so indeed uh there is more uh there is more uh there is more most of the published work that engages most of the published work that engages most of the published work that engages is with uh sort of real world learn from is with uh sort of real world learn from is with uh sort of real world learn from your preferences at least in the machine your preferences at least in the machine your preferences at least in the machine learning literature tends to be from learning literature tends to be from learning literature tends to be from industry. Uh I think there are variety industry. Uh I think there are variety industry. Uh I think there are variety of reasons for this. One of it is it is

[44:33] of reasons for this. One of it is it is of reasons for this. One of it is it is a bit more challenging to do a good job a bit more challenging to do a good job a bit more challenging to do a good job of sort of collecting human preference of sort of collecting human preference of sort of collecting human preference data. Uh partially you have to go data. Uh partially you have to go data. Uh partially you have to go through a bit more process. uh in many through a bit more process. uh in many through a bit more process. uh in many companies companies companies either the process is lower overhead for either the process is lower overhead for either the process is lower overhead for various reasons so we don't need to various reasons so we don't need to various reasons so we don't need to delve in details or or we can I don't delve in details or or we can I don't delve in details or or we can I don't know um or um know um or um know um or um the processes are managed by there's a the processes are managed by there's a the processes are managed by there's a bunch of people that will do the process bunch of people that will do the process bunch of people that will do the process for you so it's sort of more for you so it's sort of more for you so it's sort of more straightforward it can also be expensive

[45:05] straightforward it can also be expensive straightforward it can also be expensive so you know in many versions of this you so you know in many versions of this you so you know in many versions of this you want to pay the people that are giving want to pay the people that are giving want to pay the people that are giving you uh like signals or preferences or you uh like signals or preferences or you uh like signals or preferences or particularly the SFT one but even the particularly the SFT one but even the particularly the SFT one but even the preference one. Uh and so you know for preference one. Uh and so you know for preference one. Uh and so you know for many academic research things many academic research things many academic research things uh in some sense GPU is a or like uh in some sense GPU is a or like uh in some sense GPU is a or like compute is a sunk cost of advertised and compute is a sunk cost of advertised and compute is a sunk cost of advertised and uh this is like an additional thing and uh this is like an additional thing and uh this is like an additional thing and people don't always do it. There are few people don't always do it. There are few people don't always do it. There are few data sets out there and I think we'll data sets out there and I think we'll data sets out there and I think we'll use some of them uh so like pre-colcted

[45:37] use some of them uh so like pre-colcted use some of them uh so like pre-colcted human preference data sets that one can human preference data sets that one can human preference data sets that one can use. I think I'll frame a lot of the use. I think I'll frame a lot of the use. I think I'll frame a lot of the work in a class around either synthetic work in a class around either synthetic work in a class around either synthetic or like existing data sets. Um I think or like existing data sets. Um I think or like existing data sets. Um I think some of these blocks lead to this gap some of these blocks lead to this gap some of these blocks lead to this gap like who is actually doing the work. Um like who is actually doing the work. Um like who is actually doing the work. Um our hope here so we'll engage with some our hope here so we'll engage with some our hope here so we'll engage with some of these topics. I think our hope here of these topics. I think our hope here of these topics. I think our hope here is to build enough foundations such that is to build enough foundations such that is to build enough foundations such that like the more one has to do some of like the more one has to do some of like the more one has to do some of these apply things uh the gap is lower

[46:08] these apply things uh the gap is lower these apply things uh the gap is lower sort of like what you need to do to get sort of like what you need to do to get sort of like what you need to do to get things off the ground is is easier. Um a things off the ground is is easier. Um a things off the ground is is easier. Um a specific question was about like specific question was about like specific question was about like specific applications that are engaged specific applications that are engaged specific applications that are engaged with differently. I'd say you know most with differently. I'd say you know most with differently. I'd say you know most interesting big language models are not interesting big language models are not interesting big language models are not academic models. There are a few academic models. There are a few academic models. There are a few outliers. Uh there's something out of um outliers. Uh there's something out of um outliers. Uh there's something out of um uh this company out of Seattle. Forget uh this company out of Seattle. Forget uh this company out of Seattle. Forget they did Elmo they did Elmo they did Elmo AI2. Yes. Uh and there's some work here

[46:40] AI2. Yes. Uh and there's some work here AI2. Yes. Uh and there's some work here that's trying to do like meaningful that's trying to do like meaningful that's trying to do like meaningful large scale uh language models with end large scale uh language models with end large scale uh language models with end to end everything. Uh but that's a big to end everything. Uh but that's a big to end everything. Uh but that's a big one a very obvious one that uh just not one a very obvious one that uh just not one a very obvious one that uh just not that that much end to end with all of that that much end to end with all of that that much end to end with all of this process that includes collecting this process that includes collecting this process that includes collecting uh human data a lot of it will use uh human data a lot of it will use uh human data a lot of it will use existing data so like DO for instance existing data so like DO for instance existing data so like DO for instance which is we'll talk about this a bit but which is we'll talk about this a bit but which is we'll talk about this a bit but famous work engaging in some of these famous work engaging in some of these famous work engaging in some of these questions use some public data

[47:12] questions use some public data questions use some public data &gt;&gt; uh one question uh are these reward &gt;&gt; uh one question uh are these reward &gt;&gt; uh one question uh are these reward models or the relative some like models or the relative some like models or the relative some like opensource a model which we can plug opensource a model which we can plug opensource a model which we can plug into any model or it has to be into any model or it has to be into any model or it has to be customuilt to say a language model or a customuilt to say a language model or a customuilt to say a language model or a vision model that we building. vision model that we building. vision model that we building. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question was uh are there &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question was uh are there &gt;&gt; Yeah. So the question was uh are there good downloadable RHF models or uh good downloadable RHF models or uh good downloadable RHF models or uh essentially do we need to build our own? essentially do we need to build our own? essentially do we need to build our own? This is a great project question. This is a great project question. This is a great project question. So um this is a interesting one in the So um this is a interesting one in the So um this is a interesting one in the sense so there

[47:43] sense so there sense so there is now more effort in trying to publicly is now more effort in trying to publicly is now more effort in trying to publicly share reward models. Uh there's this share reward models. Uh there's this share reward models. Uh there's this reward bench thing that uh who gave a reward bench thing that uh who gave a reward bench thing that uh who gave a talk last year uh is building and sort talk last year uh is building and sort talk last year uh is building and sort of a few uh public infrastructure to of a few uh public infrastructure to of a few uh public infrastructure to engage with this. Um engage with this. Um engage with this. Um so a lot of the space the reason I I so a lot of the space the reason I I so a lot of the space the reason I I mentioned this is a good uh research mentioned this is a good uh research mentioned this is a good uh research question is I think in language in question is I think in language in question is I think in language in particular a lot of the signal is that

[48:13] particular a lot of the signal is that particular a lot of the signal is that um training a reward model separately um training a reward model separately um training a reward model separately and then training a language model to and then training a language model to and then training a language model to fit the reward model tends not to work fit the reward model tends not to work fit the reward model tends not to work all that well. The most successful all that well. The most successful all that well. The most successful implementations actually updates both implementations actually updates both implementations actually updates both the language model like this whole the language model like this whole the language model like this whole process. Uh so you collect data at the process. Uh so you collect data at the process. Uh so you collect data at the same time as uh your improvement model same time as uh your improvement model same time as uh your improvement model &gt;&gt; with the kind of model you are breeding. &gt;&gt; with the kind of model you are breeding. &gt;&gt; with the kind of model you are breeding. &gt;&gt; Yes. So uh actually I I can just mention &gt;&gt; Yes. So uh actually I I can just mention &gt;&gt; Yes. So uh actually I I can just mention so almost always the road models are you so almost always the road models are you so almost always the road models are you take your language model you cut off the take your language model you cut off the take your language model you cut off the head and you put on a sort of classifier

[48:45] head and you put on a sort of classifier head and you put on a sort of classifier at the end. We'll talk about specifics at the end. We'll talk about specifics at the end. We'll talk about specifics and what this looks like uh in a few and what this looks like uh in a few and what this looks like uh in a few lectures. by next lecture I think we'll lectures. by next lecture I think we'll lectures. by next lecture I think we'll have enough grounding to understand have enough grounding to understand have enough grounding to understand this. Um and so mechanically it's some this. Um and so mechanically it's some this. Um and so mechanically it's some big unwieldy like as big as your big unwieldy like as big as your big unwieldy like as big as your language model. Um language model. Um language model. Um procedurally procedurally procedurally it's not fully known why you can't plug it's not fully known why you can't plug it's not fully known why you can't plug and play language models that well with and play language models that well with and play language models that well with reward models. Um so there are a few

[49:15] reward models. Um so there are a few reward models. Um so there are a few hypotheses out there. I think it's sort hypotheses out there. I think it's sort hypotheses out there. I think it's sort of active interesting research. Again, I of active interesting research. Again, I of active interesting research. Again, I think an excellent potential project. think an excellent potential project. think an excellent potential project. Um, and particularly if you look at Um, and particularly if you look at Um, and particularly if you look at public ones or public data, trying to public ones or public data, trying to public ones or public data, trying to ask some questions about uh why they ask some questions about uh why they ask some questions about uh why they break sometimes when I try to sort of break sometimes when I try to sort of break sometimes when I try to sort of take a language model separately, take a take a language model separately, take a take a language model separately, take a reward model separately and sort of try reward model separately and sort of try reward model separately and sort of try to stitch things together. So, in to stitch things together. So, in to stitch things together. So, in practice, these are often trained quite practice, these are often trained quite practice, these are often trained quite close to each other. There's a few close to each other. There's a few close to each other. There's a few explanations in the ether things like, explanations in the ether things like, explanations in the ether things like, you know, is this a distribution shift you know, is this a distribution shift you know, is this a distribution shift issue?

[49:45] issue? issue? um is um is um is should we think about the reward models should we think about the reward models should we think about the reward models actually learning human preference or actually learning human preference or actually learning human preference or just getting sort of a local just getting sort of a local just getting sort of a local approximation uh that's good for approximation uh that's good for approximation uh that's good for updating the language model I don't updating the language model I don't updating the language model I don't think we know the answer so very much think we know the answer so very much think we know the answer so very much frontier of the research base I think a frontier of the research base I think a frontier of the research base I think a great another project idea so actually great another project idea so actually great another project idea so actually we don't need previous years I think we don't need previous years I think we don't need previous years I think from this class we'll probably these yes from this class we'll probably these yes from this class we'll probably these yes &gt;&gt; so I guess there's some recent like work &gt;&gt; so I guess there's some recent like work &gt;&gt; so I guess there's some recent like work somewhat recent work that does away with somewhat recent work that does away with somewhat recent work that does away with explicit learning the reward model like

[50:16] explicit learning the reward model like explicit learning the reward model like DPO. DPO. DPO. &gt;&gt; So do you think there is there still a &gt;&gt; So do you think there is there still a &gt;&gt; So do you think there is there still a case for learning the reward model case for learning the reward model case for learning the reward model explicitly or is this just explicitly or is this just explicitly or is this just &gt;&gt; another fascinating question uh another &gt;&gt; another fascinating question uh another &gt;&gt; another fascinating question uh another great research? So uh I chuckled to great research? So uh I chuckled to great research? So uh I chuckled to myself. So um we'll talk about this a myself. So um we'll talk about this a myself. So um we'll talk about this a fair amount. So in fact uh the way we've fair amount. So in fact uh the way we've fair amount. So in fact uh the way we've set up the course material there's a set up the course material there's a set up the course material there's a whole section on sort of learning from whole section on sort of learning from whole section on sort of learning from human preferences implicitly without so human preferences implicitly without so human preferences implicitly without so you know things like pair wise signals

[50:47] you know things like pair wise signals you know things like pair wise signals but without an explicit reward model so but without an explicit reward model so but without an explicit reward model so things like DPL will show up there u but things like DPL will show up there u but things like DPL will show up there u but other kinds of uh so things like bandits other kinds of uh so things like bandits other kinds of uh so things like bandits will show up there as well uh and then will show up there as well uh and then will show up there as well uh and then other ways of thinking about learning other ways of thinking about learning other ways of thinking about learning premium preferences that are explicit premium preferences that are explicit premium preferences that are explicit about learning a reward model and then about learning a reward model and then about learning a reward model and then using that as part of the optimization using that as part of the optimization using that as part of the optimization process um you depending on the setting. process um you depending on the setting. process um you depending on the setting. I think the community is pursuing both. I think the community is pursuing both. I think the community is pursuing both. Uh purely computationally, it's much Uh purely computationally, it's much Uh purely computationally, it's much cheaper not to have a big reward model cheaper not to have a big reward model cheaper not to have a big reward model because they tend to be big. At least because they tend to be big. At least because they tend to be big. At least how currently they're implemented

[51:17] how currently they're implemented how currently they're implemented sitting around when you're building sitting around when you're building sitting around when you're building these. um in RL also you know in these. um in RL also you know in these. um in RL also you know in settings where people can get away with settings where people can get away with settings where people can get away with things like behavior cloning they try to things like behavior cloning they try to things like behavior cloning they try to this is essentially treat the this is essentially treat the this is essentially treat the reinforcement learning problem like a reinforcement learning problem like a reinforcement learning problem like a regression problem and you don't regression problem and you don't regression problem and you don't explicitly like uh have a reward model explicitly like uh have a reward model explicitly like uh have a reward model um um um as a as a as a perspective on the problem I think it's perspective on the problem I think it's perspective on the problem I think it's valuable the reward model itself is valuable the reward model itself is valuable the reward model itself is valuable as an artifact because it valuable as an artifact because it valuable as an artifact because it hopefully tells us something about human

[51:48] hopefully tells us something about human hopefully tells us something about human preferences that we can then maybe preferences that we can then maybe preferences that we can then maybe examine examine examine offline and it's also useful for like offline and it's also useful for like offline and it's also useful for like evaluating it itself and what it's evaluating it itself and what it's evaluating it itself and what it's doing. Uh most of the field doing. Uh most of the field doing. Uh most of the field doesn't take that view. So the reward doesn't take that view. So the reward doesn't take that view. So the reward model is only useful in as much as it model is only useful in as much as it model is only useful in as much as it helps you train the sort of the learning helps you train the sort of the learning helps you train the sort of the learning model that you're interested in. And so model that you're interested in. And so model that you're interested in. And so if you can get away with training a if you can get away with training a if you can get away with training a learning model without an explicit learning model without an explicit learning model without an explicit reward model and you get similar reward model and you get similar reward model and you get similar performance then many people would many performance then many people would many performance then many people would many implementations would do that. Um,

[52:19] implementations would do that. Um, implementations would do that. Um, so I guess the short answer is you don't so I guess the short answer is you don't so I guess the short answer is you don't need it. In practice, many people prefer need it. In practice, many people prefer need it. In practice, many people prefer not to have it. Uh, I think it's not to have it. Uh, I think it's not to have it. Uh, I think it's valuable, but it's much more of a valuable, but it's much more of a valuable, but it's much more of a conceptual philosophical view than conceptual philosophical view than conceptual philosophical view than something that I have a a great sort of something that I have a a great sort of something that I have a a great sort of practical answer for. Um, I think it's practical answer for. Um, I think it's practical answer for. Um, I think it's one of those things where in addition to one of those things where in addition to one of those things where in addition to getting something about the model, it getting something about the model, it getting something about the model, it can also give you signals about where can also give you signals about where can also give you signals about where things might be breaking. actually be things might be breaking. actually be things might be breaking. actually be curious because they're experts in this curious because they're experts in this curious because they're experts in this room if people have either alternative room if people have either alternative room if people have either alternative opinions or expansions of this idea like opinions or expansions of this idea like opinions or expansions of this idea like sense of yes

[52:49] sense of yes sense of yes &gt;&gt; I'd say you're 100% right that people &gt;&gt; I'd say you're 100% right that people &gt;&gt; I'd say you're 100% right that people aren't using the reward model for aren't using the reward model for aren't using the reward model for anything but getting a better agent up anything but getting a better agent up anything but getting a better agent up until 01 and 01 is just using infinite until 01 and 01 is just using infinite until 01 and 01 is just using infinite monkey where I just sample a thousand monkey where I just sample a thousand monkey where I just sample a thousand and then use a smaller word model to and then use a smaller word model to and then use a smaller word model to arbitrate between samples and then say arbitrate between samples and then say arbitrate between samples and then say that's the one I like and then iterate that's the one I like and then iterate that's the one I like and then iterate on that. So that's where the reward on that. So that's where the reward on that. So that's where the reward model makes a lot of sense but it has to model makes a lot of sense but it has to model makes a lot of sense but it has to generalize beyond the local pref data generalize beyond the local pref data generalize beyond the local pref data set set set &gt;&gt; and that's you know the biggest issue is

[53:21] &gt;&gt; and that's you know the biggest issue is &gt;&gt; and that's you know the biggest issue is the reward model is easily hackable if the reward model is easily hackable if the reward model is easily hackable if you over p on the reward model it f it you over p on the reward model it f it you over p on the reward model it f it will just start outputting the the the will just start outputting the the the will just start outputting the the the just hacks the reward model and you just hacks the reward model and you just hacks the reward model and you don't have enough pref data set to don't have enough pref data set to don't have enough pref data set to prevent that other than prevent that other than prevent that other than &gt;&gt; yeah we'll talk a bit about this sort of &gt;&gt; yeah we'll talk a bit about this sort of &gt;&gt; yeah we'll talk a bit about this sort of overfitting in various ways from reward overfitting in various ways from reward overfitting in various ways from reward forward models. Um, forward models. Um, forward models. Um, no meaningful important points. Uh, no meaningful important points. Uh, no meaningful important points. Uh, yeah, I I'll try to think I I think this yeah, I I'll try to think I I think this yeah, I I'll try to think I I think this is an important question that I'd love is an important question that I'd love is an important question that I'd love to get a better answer to because I'd

[53:52] to get a better answer to because I'd to get a better answer to because I'd like to advocate for more keeping reward like to advocate for more keeping reward like to advocate for more keeping reward models around. Uh, but yeah, I mean models around. Uh, but yeah, I mean models around. Uh, but yeah, I mean another angle. So again, reward bench is another angle. So again, reward bench is another angle. So again, reward bench is motivated by this idea of like examining motivated by this idea of like examining motivated by this idea of like examining reward models themselves to say reward models themselves to say reward models themselves to say something about uh what it is the models something about uh what it is the models something about uh what it is the models are learning. Again, if you think are learning. Again, if you think are learning. Again, if you think they're learning human preferences, they're learning human preferences, they're learning human preferences, there's something there. But uh jury is there's something there. But uh jury is there's something there. But uh jury is out and I think most of the field out and I think most of the field out and I think most of the field doesn't care all that much. So again, doesn't care all that much. So again, doesn't care all that much. So again, you know, this class is framed as learn you know, this class is framed as learn you know, this class is framed as learn from human preferences whether you're from human preferences whether you're from human preferences whether you're explicit or not. So in some ways we're explicit or not. So in some ways we're explicit or not. So in some ways we're not engaging as directly. This is not not engaging as directly. This is not not engaging as directly. This is not the point of view that we need to take

[54:23] the point of view that we need to take the point of view that we need to take uh for this. We'll talk about both uh for this. We'll talk about both uh for this. We'll talk about both algorithms that try to use both with and algorithms that try to use both with and algorithms that try to use both with and without explicit rewards. Um but it's a without explicit rewards. Um but it's a without explicit rewards. Um but it's a fascinating question what you actually fascinating question what you actually fascinating question what you actually need to sort of get at the task. need to sort of get at the task. need to sort of get at the task. &gt;&gt; Yes. Um, this is like an ad because &gt;&gt; Yes. Um, this is like an ad because &gt;&gt; Yes. Um, this is like an ad because recommener systems are probably how a recommener systems are probably how a recommener systems are probably how a lot of people interact. Preferences lot of people interact. Preferences lot of people interact. Preferences &gt;&gt; indeed. &gt;&gt; indeed. &gt;&gt; indeed. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; we'll talk a bit about recommended &gt;&gt; we'll talk a bit about recommended &gt;&gt; we'll talk a bit about recommended systems, but what are you going to say? systems, but what are you going to say? systems, but what are you going to say? &gt;&gt; Oh, like of examples of like preference.

[54:54] &gt;&gt; Oh, like of examples of like preference. &gt;&gt; Oh, like of examples of like preference. &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yes. So, we'll &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yes. So, we'll &gt;&gt; Oh, yeah. Yeah, for sure. Yes. So, we'll talk about recommended systems and some talk about recommended systems and some talk about recommended systems and some of the other applications. Um, this of the other applications. Um, this of the other applications. Um, this question of, you know, do you need question of, you know, do you need question of, you know, do you need reward models as a foundational reward models as a foundational reward models as a foundational question? I think that's still okay. Um so many of you have already okay. Um so many of you have already seen this but uh this is these are seen this but uh this is these are seen this but uh this is these are results from you can look up paper we'll results from you can look up paper we'll results from you can look up paper we'll have this on the slides but they showed have this on the slides but they showed have this on the slides but they showed in some of this early work that with uh in some of this early work that with uh in some of this early work that with uh for instance summarization tests you

[55:25] for instance summarization tests you for instance summarization tests you could get much uh better results if you could get much uh better results if you could get much uh better results if you explicitly used human feedback and explicitly used human feedback and explicitly used human feedback and preferences as opposed to uh things like preferences as opposed to uh things like preferences as opposed to uh things like supervised like the generic pre-trained supervised like the generic pre-trained supervised like the generic pre-trained model you know noisy not that bad not model you know noisy not that bad not model you know noisy not that bad not that uh great supervised man tuning that uh great supervised man tuning that uh great supervised man tuning improves things uh I meaningful amount improves things uh I meaningful amount improves things uh I meaningful amount and then uh explicit human feedback and then uh explicit human feedback and then uh explicit human feedback tends to improve things meaningfully tends to improve things meaningfully tends to improve things meaningfully further and again a lot of this borne further and again a lot of this borne further and again a lot of this borne out in the results and in the artifacts out in the results and in the artifacts out in the results and in the artifacts that we're using now. So motivation for that we're using now. So motivation for that we're using now. So motivation for perspective on the problem. So here are perspective on the problem. So here are perspective on the problem. So here are some examples uh again in the paper or

[55:56] some examples uh again in the paper or some examples uh again in the paper or you can see this in the slides uh but you can see this in the slides uh but you can see this in the slides uh but showing you know human reference uh showing you know human reference uh showing you know human reference uh supervised fine tuning model that tries supervised fine tuning model that tries supervised fine tuning model that tries to answer this question and then a model to answer this question and then a model to answer this question and then a model that use human feedback. that use human feedback. that use human feedback. Okay. So, why do we care about this Okay. So, why do we care about this Okay. So, why do we care about this question? So, uh it engages a bit with question? So, uh it engages a bit with question? So, uh it engages a bit with some of the discussion earlier. some of the discussion earlier. some of the discussion earlier. So, there a bunch of different reasons. So, there a bunch of different reasons. So, there a bunch of different reasons. I don't think it's uniform across people I don't think it's uniform across people I don't think it's uniform across people who care about this uh problem. Uh one

[56:26] who care about this uh problem. Uh one who care about this uh problem. Uh one of them is uh sometimes you're of them is uh sometimes you're of them is uh sometimes you're interested in signals uh or like interested in signals uh or like interested in signals uh or like evaluations where you don't have a good evaluations where you don't have a good evaluations where you don't have a good explicit metric or loss function. Um so explicit metric or loss function. Um so explicit metric or loss function. Um so it's unclear what it means to evaluate it's unclear what it means to evaluate it's unclear what it means to evaluate progress on that setting. So for progress on that setting. So for progress on that setting. So for instance, you know, if I want to build a instance, you know, if I want to build a instance, you know, if I want to build a chatbot that's funny, uh I don't know chatbot that's funny, uh I don't know chatbot that's funny, uh I don't know what the equation is that quantifies what the equation is that quantifies what the equation is that quantifies funny. Someone here might uh but you can funny. Someone here might uh but you can funny. Someone here might uh but you can imagine getting examples from people or

[56:57] imagine getting examples from people or imagine getting examples from people or rankings from people that says you know rankings from people that says you know rankings from people that says you know this statement is funnier than this this statement is funnier than this this statement is funnier than this other statement. This gives you a signal other statement. This gives you a signal other statement. This gives you a signal that you can then use to train a model that you can then use to train a model that you can then use to train a model that will improve on this task. So that will improve on this task. So that will improve on this task. So useful in settings where explicit useful in settings where explicit useful in settings where explicit rewards or costs or losses are just rewards or costs or losses are just rewards or costs or losses are just really hard to specify and we think really hard to specify and we think really hard to specify and we think humans uh are universal experts or at humans uh are universal experts or at humans uh are universal experts or at least good experts at at getting a least good experts at at getting a least good experts at at getting a signal for those questions. Um another signal for those questions. Um another signal for those questions. Um another is uh settings where stakeholders care a

[57:29] is uh settings where stakeholders care a is uh settings where stakeholders care a lot about the outcome. Um lot about the outcome. Um lot about the outcome. Um and again the specification problem. So and again the specification problem. So and again the specification problem. So things like healthfulness, questions of things like healthfulness, questions of things like healthfulness, questions of uh things like fairness where again uh things like fairness where again uh things like fairness where again there many meaningful maybe perhaps there many meaningful maybe perhaps there many meaningful maybe perhaps reasonable definitions of what good is reasonable definitions of what good is reasonable definitions of what good is uh they don't all agree and you want to uh they don't all agree and you want to uh they don't all agree and you want to use uh interaction with human use uh interaction with human use uh interaction with human preferences as a way to specify uh a preferences as a way to specify uh a preferences as a way to specify uh a good target say typically across a large good target say typically across a large good target say typically across a large stakeholder group. Um it's often useful,

[57:59] stakeholder group. Um it's often useful, stakeholder group. Um it's often useful, it's sometimes useful when uh sort of it's sometimes useful when uh sort of it's sometimes useful when uh sort of there's some ideal behavior, we don't there's some ideal behavior, we don't there's some ideal behavior, we don't know how to fully specify it. Uh but you know how to fully specify it. Uh but you know how to fully specify it. Uh but you know, we can use evaluation signals as a know, we can use evaluation signals as a know, we can use evaluation signals as a good proxy. Um so we'll see a bit of good proxy. Um so we'll see a bit of good proxy. Um so we'll see a bit of this when we construct sort of synthetic this when we construct sort of synthetic this when we construct sort of synthetic uh evaluators. Um we'll touch on this a uh evaluators. Um we'll touch on this a uh evaluators. Um we'll touch on this a little bit. Um, and then, uh, you know, little bit. Um, and then, uh, you know, little bit. Um, and then, uh, you know, depending on who I talk to, there are depending on who I talk to, there are depending on who I talk to, there are lots of these conversations where lots of these conversations where lots of these conversations where really it's just a good proxy for we really it's just a good proxy for we really it's just a good proxy for we know there's a problem. We know that

[58:29] know there's a problem. We know that know there's a problem. We know that humans are good at fixing this kind of humans are good at fixing this kind of humans are good at fixing this kind of problem. We don't really care about problem. We don't really care about problem. We don't really care about preferences. We just want humans to help preferences. We just want humans to help preferences. We just want humans to help us fix our issues. Uh, so, you know, all us fix our issues. Uh, so, you know, all us fix our issues. Uh, so, you know, all the way from things like, you know, the way from things like, you know, the way from things like, you know, model makes a certain kind of spelling model makes a certain kind of spelling model makes a certain kind of spelling mistake all the time. Uh, you know, if mistake all the time. Uh, you know, if mistake all the time. Uh, you know, if it's a single spelling mistake, sure. If it's a single spelling mistake, sure. If it's a single spelling mistake, sure. If it's a broad range of spelling mistakes, it's a broad range of spelling mistakes, it's a broad range of spelling mistakes, maybe having labelers tell you uh maybe having labelers tell you uh maybe having labelers tell you uh you know different kinds of mistakes you know different kinds of mistakes you know different kinds of mistakes model can make can be more efficient or model can make can be more efficient or model can make can be more efficient or practical than trying to specify all the

[59:00] practical than trying to specify all the practical than trying to specify all the sort of settings of this and come out of sort of settings of this and come out of sort of settings of this and come out of it. Um so you know as you can see it. Um so you know as you can see it. Um so you know as you can see there's a broad range there's all the there's a broad range there's all the there's a broad range there's all the way from uh much uh more explicit way from uh much uh more explicit way from uh much uh more explicit uh interest in say values or preferences uh interest in say values or preferences uh interest in say values or preferences for their own sake. And sometimes these for their own sake. And sometimes these for their own sake. And sometimes these are reasons why we we engage in this. are reasons why we we engage in this. are reasons why we we engage in this. And sometimes it's just a useful proxy And sometimes it's just a useful proxy And sometimes it's just a useful proxy for some real world outcome that we'd for some real world outcome that we'd for some real world outcome that we'd like to get. Okay. Questions? See hands? like to get. Okay. Questions? See hands? like to get. Okay. Questions? See hands? Okay. Um Okay. So I've given some

[59:31] Okay. Um Okay. So I've given some Okay. Um Okay. So I've given some examples of all these though. Happy to examples of all these though. Happy to examples of all these though. Happy to give more this uh missing gaps. Um okay. give more this uh missing gaps. Um okay. give more this uh missing gaps. Um okay. So So So there's been a lot of progress uh over there's been a lot of progress uh over there's been a lot of progress uh over the past couple years. is again I'd say the past couple years. is again I'd say the past couple years. is again I'd say one of the more active parts of the MLA one of the more active parts of the MLA one of the more active parts of the MLA research work. Um but there's still lots research work. Um but there's still lots research work. Um but there's still lots of places where we're we know that we're of places where we're we know that we're of places where we're we know that we're missing something. So as many of you missing something. So as many of you missing something. So as many of you know in language models there are know in language models there are know in language models there are explicit biases that the models have uh

[1:00:02] explicit biases that the models have uh explicit biases that the models have uh that reflects also human biases to a that reflects also human biases to a that reflects also human biases to a large extent. So for instance, many of large extent. So for instance, many of large extent. So for instance, many of you might know that uh chat bots tend to you might know that uh chat bots tend to you might know that uh chat bots tend to like long answers uh and also tend to like long answers uh and also tend to like long answers uh and also tend to like given responses that have um like given responses that have um like given responses that have um bullets. Apparently these are the two bullets. Apparently these are the two bullets. Apparently these are the two strongest signals in terms of both human strongest signals in terms of both human strongest signals in terms of both human preference and sort of language model preference and sort of language model preference and sort of language model biases. So if you want to get a good biases. So if you want to get a good biases. So if you want to get a good reward score, you want to get a human to reward score, you want to get a human to reward score, you want to get a human to say you could give a good answer, make say you could give a good answer, make say you could give a good answer, make the answer long and give lots of bullets the answer long and give lots of bullets the answer long and give lots of bullets whether or not you actually answer uh

[1:00:33] whether or not you actually answer uh whether or not you actually answer uh the question. people just you look the question. people just you look the question. people just you look smarter, right? And so you said a lot uh smarter, right? And so you said a lot uh smarter, right? And so you said a lot uh as I'm doing now. Um so uh there's also as I'm doing now. Um so uh there's also as I'm doing now. Um so uh there's also lots of settings where uh human lots of settings where uh human lots of settings where uh human preferences are unreliable. So we'll preferences are unreliable. So we'll preferences are unreliable. So we'll talk a bit about reward hacking. I'll talk a bit about reward hacking. I'll talk a bit about reward hacking. I'll give a quick example in a little bit. Um give a quick example in a little bit. Um give a quick example in a little bit. Um so some of these can have reward so some of these can have reward so some of these can have reward impacts. You know, some of you know uh a impacts. You know, some of you know uh a impacts. You know, some of you know uh a bunch of the like news stories that came bunch of the like news stories that came bunch of the like news stories that came out when there were mistakes. Um many of

[1:01:03] out when there were mistakes. Um many of out when there were mistakes. Um many of these I guess define as things like these I guess define as things like these I guess define as things like hallucination hallucination hallucination uh sort of errors in a model for factual uh sort of errors in a model for factual uh sort of errors in a model for factual queries. Um that can sometimes be queries. Um that can sometimes be queries. Um that can sometimes be attributed to sort of something that attributed to sort of something that attributed to sort of something that we're missing uh potentially in how we we're missing uh potentially in how we we're missing uh potentially in how we construct and train models. construct and train models. construct and train models. Okay. Um there's work or gaps tied to Okay. Um there's work or gaps tied to Okay. Um there's work or gaps tied to potential ethical issues. Um so potential ethical issues. Um so potential ethical issues. Um so you know in many settings

[1:01:35] you know in many settings you know in many settings uh uh uh so there's a bunch of the work that so there's a bunch of the work that so there's a bunch of the work that often will require sort of experts. So often will require sort of experts. So often will require sort of experts. So things like supervised machining data things like supervised machining data things like supervised machining data but often the pair wise preference data but often the pair wise preference data but often the pair wise preference data is often outsourced and sometimes can be is often outsourced and sometimes can be is often outsourced and sometimes can be outsourced to uh sort of settings where outsourced to uh sort of settings where outsourced to uh sort of settings where it's low cost to get uh data from it's low cost to get uh data from it's low cost to get uh data from individuals. Um the ethics here are individuals. Um the ethics here are individuals. Um the ethics here are tricky. So I don't want to say this as tricky. So I don't want to say this as tricky. So I don't want to say this as sort of a simple cut and dry thing but sort of a simple cut and dry thing but sort of a simple cut and dry thing but I'd like for us to be thinking about I'd like for us to be thinking about I'd like for us to be thinking about engaging some of these questions. Okay.

[1:02:07] engaging some of these questions. Okay. engaging some of these questions. Okay. Uh so you know this includes uh you know Uh so you know this includes uh you know Uh so you know this includes uh you know on one hand sometimes there's actually a on one hand sometimes there's actually a on one hand sometimes there's actually a can be a good job in certain places. Um can be a good job in certain places. Um can be a good job in certain places. Um in many settings though they're often in many settings though they're often in many settings though they're often like the places where one might like the places where one might like the places where one might outsource uh labor for um things like outsource uh labor for um things like outsource uh labor for um things like moderation but also often for training moderation but also often for training moderation but also often for training models can be things issues are settings models can be things issues are settings models can be things issues are settings where uh the individuals that uh try to where uh the individuals that uh try to where uh the individuals that uh try to improve these models get see the worsts

[1:02:38] improve these models get see the worsts improve these models get see the worsts uh of the signals that the models can uh of the signals that the models can uh of the signals that the models can create. So you know uh signal or say create. So you know uh signal or say create. So you know uh signal or say images for instance that uh images for instance that uh images for instance that uh deeply unethical in various ways or even deeply unethical in various ways or even deeply unethical in various ways or even potentially traumatic where uh you might potentially traumatic where uh you might potentially traumatic where uh you might need psychological help after doing some need psychological help after doing some need psychological help after doing some of this work. So you know challenging of this work. So you know challenging of this work. So you know challenging open question one that uh our field open question one that uh our field open question one that uh our field engages with a bit but one that again engages with a bit but one that again engages with a bit but one that again I'd like us to part in scope for what I'd like us to part in scope for what I'd like us to part in scope for what we're thinking about and and think about we're thinking about and and think about we're thinking about and and think about these kinds of issues in this class.

[1:03:11] these kinds of issues in this class. these kinds of issues in this class. Okay. Um, here's a paper I like. Um, no Okay. Um, here's a paper I like. Um, no Okay. Um, here's a paper I like. Um, no need to read the details, so you can need to read the details, so you can need to read the details, so you can look up the reference later. Um, look up the reference later. Um, look up the reference later. Um, there's some small chance the author is there's some small chance the author is there's some small chance the author is here. Not sure. No. Okay. It's a here. Not sure. No. Okay. It's a here. Not sure. No. Okay. It's a Stanford paper. Um, so they did this Stanford paper. Um, so they did this Stanford paper. Um, so they did this clever thing where they I thought clever clever thing where they I thought clever clever thing where they I thought clever where they queried uh they they they where they queried uh they they they where they queried uh they they they gave the Pew survey. Some of you might gave the Pew survey. Some of you might gave the Pew survey. Some of you might know this is a survey that people uh know this is a survey that people uh know this is a survey that people uh well Pew uses to uh evaluate like uh

[1:03:44] well Pew uses to uh evaluate like uh well Pew uses to uh evaluate like uh values and preferences across typically values and preferences across typically values and preferences across typically uh different societies the US different uh different societies the US different uh different societies the US different subgroups. So they gave the pew survey subgroups. So they gave the pew survey subgroups. So they gave the pew survey to a language model. Um and so they to a language model. Um and so they to a language model. Um and so they asked it you know a bunch of different asked it you know a bunch of different asked it you know a bunch of different questions that can give responses um and questions that can give responses um and questions that can give responses um and they tried to check sort of the extent they tried to check sort of the extent they tried to check sort of the extent to which any of these responses to which any of these responses to which any of these responses correlated with different demographic correlated with different demographic correlated with different demographic groups. Um so do the responses look more groups. Um so do the responses look more groups. Um so do the responses look more like you know someone just looking like you know someone just looking like you know someone just looking through on the right hand side through on the right hand side through on the right hand side conservative with less than high school

[1:04:14] conservative with less than high school conservative with less than high school education who makes less than $30,000 as education who makes less than $30,000 as education who makes less than $30,000 as an example. So you can do this. You an example. So you can do this. You an example. So you can do this. You know, this is a sort of perhaps know, this is a sort of perhaps know, this is a sort of perhaps straightforward survey to do. Um, does straightforward survey to do. Um, does straightforward survey to do. Um, does anyone know what they found as sort of anyone know what they found as sort of anyone know what they found as sort of the highest correlation group to the highest correlation group to the highest correlation group to the survey? So what opinions did it the survey? So what opinions did it the survey? So what opinions did it suggests that their uh analysis suggest suggests that their uh analysis suggest suggests that their uh analysis suggest that the models sort of captured the that the models sort of captured the that the models sort of captured the best? best? best? And it's not a trick question. And it's not a trick question. And it's not a trick question. It's the obvious one.

[1:04:48] guesses guesses &gt;&gt; re label the pref data. &gt;&gt; re label the pref data. &gt;&gt; re label the pref data. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh uh some to the pref data not &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh uh some to the pref data not &gt;&gt; Yeah. Uh uh some to the pref data not completely though which is a little bit completely though which is a little bit completely though which is a little bit surprising but I want to surprising but I want to surprising but I want to state this as a location. So where in state this as a location. So where in state this as a location. So where in the world do you think uh the world do you think uh the world do you think uh guess is guess is guess is &gt;&gt; the US? &gt;&gt; the US? &gt;&gt; the US? &gt;&gt; Okay. So US uh more fine grain than this &gt;&gt; Okay. So US uh more fine grain than this &gt;&gt; Okay. So US uh more fine grain than this &gt;&gt; California. &gt;&gt; California. &gt;&gt; California. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So very California very US very &gt;&gt; Yeah. So very California very US very &gt;&gt; Yeah. So very California very US very around here actually. So it turns out around here actually. So it turns out around here actually. So it turns out language models like to be you know language models like to be you know language models like to be you know Californiaian Sanford Palatoto kind of

[1:05:20] Californiaian Sanford Palatoto kind of Californiaian Sanford Palatoto kind of people perhaps you know not surprising people perhaps you know not surprising people perhaps you know not surprising in retrospect because again you know I in retrospect because again you know I in retrospect because again you know I mean part perhaps part of the labeling mean part perhaps part of the labeling mean part perhaps part of the labeling is done all over the world but there's a is done all over the world but there's a is done all over the world but there's a lot of uh to the earlier point there's a lot of uh to the earlier point there's a lot of uh to the earlier point there's a lot of uh intervention in the models lot of uh intervention in the models lot of uh intervention in the models that ties to people who generally work that ties to people who generally work that ties to people who generally work here who have political opinions and here who have political opinions and here who have political opinions and preferences that match uh you know preferences that match uh you know preferences that match uh you know people that live around here. And so people that live around here. And so people that live around here. And so this these kinds of uh preferences get this these kinds of uh preferences get this these kinds of uh preferences get embedded in language models. So again embedded in language models. So again embedded in language models. So again part of our goal will be uh uh

[1:05:51] part of our goal will be uh uh part of our goal will be uh uh understand the mechanism by which this understand the mechanism by which this understand the mechanism by which this happens and sort of process either happens and sort of process either happens and sort of process either intentionally or unintentionally but intentionally or unintentionally but intentionally or unintentionally but also I think in scope is critiquing and also I think in scope is critiquing and also I think in scope is critiquing and evaluating sort of what ends up being evaluating sort of what ends up being evaluating sort of what ends up being embedded in language models and you know embedded in language models and you know embedded in language models and you know as you might imagine this can have de as you might imagine this can have de as you might imagine this can have de have downstream impacts of various have downstream impacts of various have downstream impacts of various kinds. Okay, so we talk a lot about kinds. Okay, so we talk a lot about kinds. Okay, so we talk a lot about language. It's hard to avoid it, but language. It's hard to avoid it, but language. It's hard to avoid it, but there's lots of other stuff that you can there's lots of other stuff that you can there's lots of other stuff that you can do with preference models, but we'll do with preference models, but we'll do with preference models, but we'll talk through uh some examples. Um, so talk through uh some examples. Um, so talk through uh some examples. Um, so there's work, for instance, this is uh I there's work, for instance, this is uh I there's work, for instance, this is uh I think quite cool work from some

[1:06:22] think quite cool work from some think quite cool work from some colleagues out of Caltech. Um, where colleagues out of Caltech. Um, where colleagues out of Caltech. Um, where they're building an exoskeleton. So you they're building an exoskeleton. So you they're building an exoskeleton. So you know people particularly for people who know people particularly for people who know people particularly for people who cannot walk and so have lost uh control cannot walk and so have lost uh control cannot walk and so have lost uh control of part of their limbs uh their legs of part of their limbs uh their legs of part of their limbs uh their legs they have uh uh exoskeleton that helps they have uh uh exoskeleton that helps they have uh uh exoskeleton that helps them walk and uh part of the calibration them walk and uh part of the calibration them walk and uh part of the calibration process uh requires getting signals on process uh requires getting signals on process uh requires getting signals on uh either what's uh either feels better uh either what's uh either feels better uh either what's uh either feels better or worse or or sort of some signal from

[1:06:53] or worse or or sort of some signal from or worse or or sort of some signal from the human about how well it's working in the human about how well it's working in the human about how well it's working in order to actually calibrate the order to actually calibrate the order to actually calibrate the exoskeleton. exoskeleton. exoskeleton. And so um you know you can imagine And so um you know you can imagine And so um you know you can imagine asking setting up the model some way uh asking setting up the model some way uh asking setting up the model some way uh asking the user uh you know is the asking the user uh you know is the asking the user uh you know is the setting good for you uh and the setting setting good for you uh and the setting setting good for you uh and the setting here involves a bunch of these probes at here involves a bunch of these probes at here involves a bunch of these probes at the back which have different settings the back which have different settings the back which have different settings across this array. Um and this all this across this array. Um and this all this across this array. Um and this all this you have to tune. So there's some you have to tune. So there's some you have to tune. So there's some response tuning curve that you have to response tuning curve that you have to response tuning curve that you have to fit uh that is somewhat personalized. So fit uh that is somewhat personalized. So fit uh that is somewhat personalized. So each person has some tuning curve that's

[1:07:24] each person has some tuning curve that's each person has some tuning curve that's specialized to them. So you have to specialized to them. So you have to specialized to them. So you have to answer this question of how do I answer this question of how do I answer this question of how do I calibrate the model to the individual. calibrate the model to the individual. calibrate the model to the individual. And here you know the signal that seems And here you know the signal that seems And here you know the signal that seems most reliable is what the person tells most reliable is what the person tells most reliable is what the person tells you in terms of how well it works for you in terms of how well it works for you in terms of how well it works for them. And so you could try an absolute them. And so you could try an absolute them. And so you could try an absolute value query. You know is this four over value query. You know is this four over value query. You know is this four over five in terms of how good this uh is the five in terms of how good this uh is the five in terms of how good this uh is the problem clear by the way. Okay. So no, problem clear by the way. Okay. So no, problem clear by the way. Okay. So no, the real world context and then a bit of the real world context and then a bit of the real world context and then a bit of the algorithmics. the algorithmics. the algorithmics. Um they found and we'll argue a bit in

[1:07:54] Um they found and we'll argue a bit in Um they found and we'll argue a bit in many of the applications we look at that many of the applications we look at that many of the applications we look at that uh preference queries worked a lot uh preference queries worked a lot uh preference queries worked a lot better. So instead of saying you know better. So instead of saying you know better. So instead of saying you know how good is this in absolute scale uh how good is this in absolute scale uh how good is this in absolute scale uh you ask people to compare two settings you ask people to compare two settings you ask people to compare two settings of the models and then you have your of the models and then you have your of the models and then you have your algorithmics behind the scenes that can algorithmics behind the scenes that can algorithmics behind the scenes that can use this pair wise preference as a way use this pair wise preference as a way use this pair wise preference as a way to tune uh this array uh such that you to tune uh this array uh such that you to tune uh this array uh such that you get hopefully uh the best behavior in get hopefully uh the best behavior in get hopefully uh the best behavior in terms of the exoskeleton walking. Um so terms of the exoskeleton walking. Um so terms of the exoskeleton walking. Um so we'll talk a bit about this. We'll talk we'll talk a bit about this. We'll talk we'll talk a bit about this. We'll talk about we already talked a bit about about we already talked a bit about about we already talked a bit about preference feedback. talk about dueling

[1:08:25] preference feedback. talk about dueling preference feedback. talk about dueling bandits which are a way to think about bandits which are a way to think about bandits which are a way to think about uh bandit problems with pair wise uh bandit problems with pair wise uh bandit problems with pair wise preferences explicitly um as a way to preferences explicitly um as a way to preferences explicitly um as a way to frame problems like this in a bunch of frame problems like this in a bunch of frame problems like this in a bunch of different papers where this group is different papers where this group is different papers where this group is engaged with. engaged with. engaged with. Okay. Um other algorithms so I talked a Okay. Um other algorithms so I talked a Okay. Um other algorithms so I talked a bit of beginning on some of my work in bit of beginning on some of my work in bit of beginning on some of my work in metric illustration. So the idea here is metric illustration. So the idea here is metric illustration. So the idea here is uh for various kinds of learning uh for various kinds of learning uh for various kinds of learning problems say classification problems uh problems say classification problems uh problems say classification problems uh you want to get a signal um there lots you want to get a signal um there lots you want to get a signal um there lots of classification problems where um the

[1:08:57] of classification problems where um the of classification problems where um the metric of success is unclear or there metric of success is unclear or there metric of success is unclear or there asymmetric trade-offs potentially. So asymmetric trade-offs potentially. So asymmetric trade-offs potentially. So there is a maybe differential cost for there is a maybe differential cost for there is a maybe differential cost for making different kinds of errors. This making different kinds of errors. This making different kinds of errors. This shows up a lot in say medical shows up a lot in say medical shows up a lot in say medical application settings where false application settings where false application settings where false positives and false negatives don't cost positives and false negatives don't cost positives and false negatives don't cost the same in terms of impact on uh the the same in terms of impact on uh the the same in terms of impact on uh the individual and here calibrating your individual and here calibrating your individual and here calibrating your learning problem to actually figure out learning problem to actually figure out learning problem to actually figure out the right trade-offs can be tricky. And the right trade-offs can be tricky. And the right trade-offs can be tricky. And so we've done some work uh over a few so we've done some work uh over a few so we've done some work uh over a few years now uh thinking about ways of years now uh thinking about ways of years now uh thinking about ways of getting per pair wise preferences from

[1:09:28] getting per pair wise preferences from getting per pair wise preferences from humans as a way to tune uh the humans as a way to tune uh the humans as a way to tune uh the preference of the learning model to best preference of the learning model to best preference of the learning model to best align with uh expert feedback on various align with uh expert feedback on various align with uh expert feedback on various kinds of like typically classification kinds of like typically classification kinds of like typically classification problems things like this. But we did problems things like this. But we did problems things like this. But we did work on uh things like fairness problems work on uh things like fairness problems work on uh things like fairness problems uh learning from uh learning from uh learning from uh stakeholder groups empirical uh stakeholder groups empirical uh stakeholder groups empirical evaluation. Um so we've done some work evaluation. Um so we've done some work evaluation. Um so we've done some work in looking at how this looks like in in looking at how this looks like in in looking at how this looks like in real world context of various kinds. real world context of various kinds. real world context of various kinds. Okay. So elication is interesting again

[1:09:59] Okay. So elication is interesting again Okay. So elication is interesting again I've mentioned this before but where I've mentioned this before but where I've mentioned this before but where individual stakeholders matter or where individual stakeholders matter or where individual stakeholders matter or where the trade-offs are tricky and hard to the trade-offs are tricky and hard to the trade-offs are tricky and hard to specify and so we found that valuable um specify and so we found that valuable um specify and so we found that valuable um uh some recent work recentish um uh some recent work recentish um uh some recent work recentish um thinking about inverse decision theory. thinking about inverse decision theory. thinking about inverse decision theory. So this is this question it's a similar So this is this question it's a similar So this is this question it's a similar kind of question but in a classification kind of question but in a classification kind of question but in a classification setting um of uh you know decision setting um of uh you know decision setting um of uh you know decision theory is this forward forward process I theory is this forward forward process I theory is this forward forward process I have some probabistic model of the world have some probabistic model of the world have some probabistic model of the world I want to come at a decision the inverse I want to come at a decision the inverse I want to come at a decision the inverse is I want to figure out again how to

[1:10:30] is I want to figure out again how to is I want to figure out again how to think of trade-offs and trade-offs and think of trade-offs and trade-offs and think of trade-offs and trade-offs and classification problems always almost classification problems always almost classification problems always almost always boiled down to thresholds what do always boiled down to thresholds what do always boiled down to thresholds what do I set my threshold for uh if I have a I set my threshold for uh if I have a I set my threshold for uh if I have a proistic model of uh some behavior what proistic model of uh some behavior what proistic model of uh some behavior what do I set my threshold for yes no if I'm do I set my threshold for yes no if I'm do I set my threshold for yes no if I'm going to make a binary decision for going to make a binary decision for going to make a binary decision for instance. Um, and so, you know, you can instance. Um, and so, you know, you can instance. Um, and so, you know, you can think about this as sort of some think about this as sort of some think about this as sort of some feedback process. Um, and you know, feedback process. Um, and you know, feedback process. Um, and you know, we've done a bit of work. I'll leave you we've done a bit of work. I'll leave you we've done a bit of work. I'll leave you to read details if you're interested in to read details if you're interested in to read details if you're interested in ways to frame this problem and sort of ways to frame this problem and sort of ways to frame this problem and sort of what comes out of it. what comes out of it. what comes out of it. Uh, recommendation systems like you

[1:11:01] Uh, recommendation systems like you Uh, recommendation systems like you brought up. So, another meaningful high brought up. So, another meaningful high brought up. So, another meaningful high impact application in a sense that a lot impact application in a sense that a lot impact application in a sense that a lot of our world now is driven by of our world now is driven by of our world now is driven by recommendation systems. Um, so all the recommendation systems. Um, so all the recommendation systems. Um, so all the way from things like, you know, movies way from things like, you know, movies way from things like, you know, movies and audio, Spotify, Netflix, um, there's and audio, Spotify, Netflix, um, there's and audio, Spotify, Netflix, um, there's a bunch of work in this space. This, you a bunch of work in this space. This, you a bunch of work in this space. This, you know, at some point was the coolest part know, at some point was the coolest part know, at some point was the coolest part of the AI field. Uh, I'm dating myself a of the AI field. Uh, I'm dating myself a of the AI field. Uh, I'm dating myself a bit, but when the Netflix prize was a bit, but when the Netflix prize was a bit, but when the Netflix prize was a thing, Netflix set out a million dollars thing, Netflix set out a million dollars thing, Netflix set out a million dollars whoever could improve their

[1:11:32] whoever could improve their whoever could improve their recommendation system algorithms. Uh, I recommendation system algorithms. Uh, I recommendation system algorithms. Uh, I tried. We didn't win. weren't even tried. We didn't win. weren't even tried. We didn't win. weren't even close, but you know, close, but you know, close, but you know, we gave it a shot. Um, like many others, we gave it a shot. Um, like many others, we gave it a shot. Um, like many others, you know, everyone did sort of fairly you know, everyone did sort of fairly you know, everyone did sort of fairly heavy complicated algorithms that tried heavy complicated algorithms that tried heavy complicated algorithms that tried to be good at at mean square error. Um, to be good at at mean square error. Um, to be good at at mean square error. Um, there's a bunch of work building on this there's a bunch of work building on this there's a bunch of work building on this and sort of other parts of the field and sort of other parts of the field and sort of other parts of the field have tried to make this problem uh sort have tried to make this problem uh sort have tried to make this problem uh sort of much better specified. But again, uh, of much better specified. But again, uh, of much better specified. But again, uh, you know, a lot of this often boils down you know, a lot of this often boils down you know, a lot of this often boils down to like you're trying to model and to like you're trying to model and to like you're trying to model and capture human preferences over items,

[1:12:03] capture human preferences over items, capture human preferences over items, movies, objects, uh, things that people movies, objects, uh, things that people movies, objects, uh, things that people might want to buy. There's a bunch of might want to buy. There's a bunch of might want to buy. There's a bunch of literature both technical uh, and so literature both technical uh, and so literature both technical uh, and so otherwise have come out from this. So otherwise have come out from this. So otherwise have come out from this. So various kinds of querying, uh, various various kinds of querying, uh, various various kinds of querying, uh, various kinds of evalu kinds of evalu kinds of evalu signals. So things like thumbs up, signals. So things like thumbs up, signals. So things like thumbs up, thumbs down, which is this pair wise thumbs down, which is this pair wise thumbs down, which is this pair wise thing about an indivi on an individual thing about an indivi on an individual thing about an indivi on an individual item. uh getting pair wise preferences, item. uh getting pair wise preferences, item. uh getting pair wise preferences, ranking preferences, rating preferences. ranking preferences, rating preferences. ranking preferences, rating preferences. So there's a whole literature there that So there's a whole literature there that So there's a whole literature there that we'll touch on and we'll again think we'll touch on and we'll again think we'll touch on and we'll again think about how it might apply to other things

[1:12:34] about how it might apply to other things about how it might apply to other things that we're interested in. We've already that we're interested in. We've already that we're interested in. We've already talked about RHF, so I won't belabor talked about RHF, so I won't belabor talked about RHF, so I won't belabor this, but uh additional detail if you're this, but uh additional detail if you're this, but uh additional detail if you're interested. Um it shows up in interested. Um it shows up in interested. Um it shows up in reinforcement learning. Um I yeah, show reinforcement learning. Um I yeah, show reinforcement learning. Um I yeah, show the video. So uh this is work in 2008 the video. So uh this is work in 2008 the video. So uh this is work in 2008 which is the first time that people use which is the first time that people use which is the first time that people use uh like RL algorithms from human uh like RL algorithms from human uh like RL algorithms from human demonstrations to uh demonstrations to uh demonstrations to uh I guess automatically or learn some

[1:13:05] I guess automatically or learn some I guess automatically or learn some policy for actually flying a helicopter. policy for actually flying a helicopter. policy for actually flying a helicopter. So again this was like some way ahead of So again this was like some way ahead of So again this was like some way ahead of time at the time. Um there's some work time at the time. Um there's some work time at the time. Um there's some work from colleague Dorsa and some of her PhD from colleague Dorsa and some of her PhD from colleague Dorsa and some of her PhD students doing all sorts of cool things students doing all sorts of cool things students doing all sorts of cool things and uh preference learning for and uh preference learning for and uh preference learning for reinforcement learning applications. So reinforcement learning applications. So reinforcement learning applications. So I'd argue RL has engaged with this I'd argue RL has engaged with this I'd argue RL has engaged with this problem for a long time and has lots of problem for a long time and has lots of problem for a long time and has lots of artifacts but we also try to learn quite artifacts but we also try to learn quite artifacts but we also try to learn quite a bit uh from RL settings. Um they've a bit uh from RL settings. Um they've a bit uh from RL settings. Um they've also done work uh it's the same group uh

[1:13:37] also done work uh it's the same group uh also done work uh it's the same group uh looking at ways to learn from looking at ways to learn from looking at ways to learn from demonstrations. So I won't play the demonstrations. So I won't play the demonstrations. So I won't play the video for time but um you can take a video for time but um you can take a video for time but um you can take a look and I've also asked questions about look and I've also asked questions about look and I've also asked questions about how to model things like comparison how to model things like comparison how to model things like comparison data. Um I'll maybe show this. So this data. Um I'll maybe show this. So this data. Um I'll maybe show this. So this is this uh some of you might have seen is this uh some of you might have seen is this uh some of you might have seen this video. So this is now famous as a this video. So this is now famous as a this video. So this is now famous as a um example of trying to learn or or um example of trying to learn or or um example of trying to learn or or specify a reward function for a game specify a reward function for a game specify a reward function for a game playing agent. So the model is meant to playing agent. So the model is meant to playing agent. So the model is meant to you know the bolt is supposed to

[1:14:07] you know the bolt is supposed to you know the bolt is supposed to complete a course. Uh, as you can see, complete a course. Uh, as you can see, complete a course. Uh, as you can see, it's not completing the course. It turns it's not completing the course. It turns it's not completing the course. It turns out it's still getting a good score. So, out it's still getting a good score. So, out it's still getting a good score. So, most of you might have already seen most of you might have already seen most of you might have already seen this. Uh, what the agent learned is, uh, this. Uh, what the agent learned is, uh, this. Uh, what the agent learned is, uh, there's a very specific set of, uh, sort there's a very specific set of, uh, sort there's a very specific set of, uh, sort of behavior that you might repeat. Um, of behavior that you might repeat. Um, of behavior that you might repeat. Um, it turns out that if you hit those green it turns out that if you hit those green it turns out that if you hit those green things at the bottom, you get a bunch of things at the bottom, you get a bunch of things at the bottom, you get a bunch of rewards. They respawn at the exact right rewards. They respawn at the exact right rewards. They respawn at the exact right timing to sort of hit a bunch of these timing to sort of hit a bunch of these timing to sort of hit a bunch of these bolts, hit the side, and come back and bolts, hit the side, and come back and bolts, hit the side, and come back and get the reward over again. So your

[1:14:38] get the reward over again. So your get the reward over again. So your reward function was maximize score. reward function was maximize score. reward function was maximize score. Agent figured out I can get a really Agent figured out I can get a really Agent figured out I can get a really high score playing this. And so high score playing this. And so high score playing this. And so sometimes this is called reward hacking. sometimes this is called reward hacking. sometimes this is called reward hacking. We'll talk a bit about this and how it We'll talk a bit about this and how it We'll talk a bit about this and how it shows up and uh ways of okay shows up and uh ways of okay shows up and uh ways of okay ways of engaging with ways of engaging with ways of engaging with language models. Uh language models. Uh language models. Uh okay. Uh okay. So bunch of factors we okay. Uh okay. So bunch of factors we okay. Uh okay. So bunch of factors we think about things like you know how think about things like you know how think about things like you know how hard is it for the human to specify hard is it for the human to specify hard is it for the human to specify signals. How do we think about

[1:15:08] signals. How do we think about signals. How do we think about correctness? What happens if there is no correctness? What happens if there is no correctness? What happens if there is no correct answer? And how do we think correct answer? And how do we think correct answer? And how do we think about things like truthfulness and uh um about things like truthfulness and uh um about things like truthfulness and uh um strategic behavior? Various kinds the strategic behavior? Various kinds the strategic behavior? Various kinds the roles of mistakes expertise questions roles of mistakes expertise questions roles of mistakes expertise questions like this. Um in most of the work we'll like this. Um in most of the work we'll like this. Um in most of the work we'll assume sort of some kind of rational assume sort of some kind of rational assume sort of some kind of rational human. We'll engage with this a ton over human. We'll engage with this a ton over human. We'll engage with this a ton over the course of the lecture, but we'll the course of the lecture, but we'll the course of the lecture, but we'll assume that there exists some kind of assume that there exists some kind of assume that there exists some kind of reward function uh even if we're not reward function uh even if we're not reward function uh even if we're not being explicit about it, but there being explicit about it, but there being explicit about it, but there exists some sort of explicit exists some sort of explicit exists some sort of explicit deterministic function that tells us

[1:15:38] deterministic function that tells us deterministic function that tells us what a human would prefer and we'll what a human would prefer and we'll what a human would prefer and we'll build a lot of our models based on this. build a lot of our models based on this. build a lot of our models based on this. Uh but it is an assumption and at least Uh but it is an assumption and at least Uh but it is an assumption and at least one uh invited talk will engage with one uh invited talk will engage with one uh invited talk will engage with whether this assumption is reasonable or whether this assumption is reasonable or whether this assumption is reasonable or not and and what to do about it. Um not and and what to do about it. Um not and and what to do about it. Um we'll talk we'll mostly talk about sort we'll talk we'll mostly talk about sort we'll talk we'll mostly talk about sort of discrete choice kinds of things and of discrete choice kinds of things and of discrete choice kinds of things and kind of parametric models that build kind of parametric models that build kind of parametric models that build around that a bit about biases around that a bit about biases around that a bit about biases aggregation a whole bunch of the topics aggregation a whole bunch of the topics aggregation a whole bunch of the topics that talked about okay so that's that that talked about okay so that's that that talked about okay so that's that about material uh a bit on just general

[1:16:09] about material uh a bit on just general about material uh a bit on just general overview so we're going for breadth over overview so we're going for breadth over overview so we're going for breadth over depth for various reasons again new depth for various reasons again new depth for various reasons again new space we're trying to figure out what space we're trying to figure out what space we're trying to figure out what the edges are that make sense for the the edges are that make sense for the the edges are that make sense for the class um we'll try to engage with a class um we'll try to engage with a class um we'll try to engage with a bunch of different applications S uh we bunch of different applications S uh we bunch of different applications S uh we have a lecture schedule which you've have a lecture schedule which you've have a lecture schedule which you've seen online. Um though you know there seen online. Um though you know there seen online. Um though you know there might be some shuffling in terms of might be some shuffling in terms of might be some shuffling in terms of topics and speakers as already mentioned topics and speakers as already mentioned topics and speakers as already mentioned we assume you have machine learning we assume you have machine learning we assume you have machine learning basics you can do some basic programming basics you can do some basic programming basics you can do some basic programming uh if you cannot we should chat because uh if you cannot we should chat because uh if you cannot we should chat because I think there'll be some challenges in I think there'll be some challenges in I think there'll be some challenges in engaging with the course. Um there's a

[1:16:40] engaging with the course. Um there's a engaging with the course. Um there's a textbook and uh this link the slides textbook and uh this link the slides textbook and uh this link the slides will be available and so you can take a will be available and so you can take a will be available and so you can take a look. Um and next we'll start on uh look. Um and next we'll start on uh look. Um and next we'll start on uh material on some existing choice models material on some existing choice models material on some existing choice models for the rest of the lecture. All right. for the rest of the lecture. All right. for the rest of the lecture. All right. Thank you. Welcome to CS39H.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=ApF2OenMgfc
