# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 |  Human-centered Design

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=VffFArrRSBE
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:19:24 · Words: 41521
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/VffFArrRSBE.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=VffFArrRSBE

## Transcript
[0:08] Today the main topic is on human- Today the main topic is on human- centered design. Um centered design. Um centered design. Um uh just briefly to mention the slides uh just briefly to mention the slides uh just briefly to mention the slides I'm going to talk about today are built I'm going to talk about today are built I'm going to talk about today are built off of a couple of tutorials uh that I off of a couple of tutorials uh that I off of a couple of tutorials uh that I saw from deank and I think very helpful saw from deank and I think very helpful saw from deank and I think very helpful in setting up this material. not my you in setting up this material. not my you in setting up this material. not my you know core area but it's an area that I'm know core area but it's an area that I'm know core area but it's an area that I'm sort of learning a lot about and I think sort of learning a lot about and I think sort of learning a lot about and I think it's pretty central for towards some of it's pretty central for towards some of it's pretty central for towards some of the things that I think are important in the things that I think are important in the things that I think are important in this course and uh relevant material this course and uh relevant material this course and uh relevant material more broadly. Um and so mostly we'll try

[0:38] more broadly. Um and so mostly we'll try more broadly. Um and so mostly we'll try to focus on uh perspectives and methods to focus on uh perspectives and methods to focus on uh perspectives and methods from human centered uh and human from human centered uh and human from human centered uh and human computer interaction and how they might computer interaction and how they might computer interaction and how they might play a role in thinking about questions play a role in thinking about questions play a role in thinking about questions and okay so fix this thing but human AI and okay so fix this thing but human AI and okay so fix this thing but human AI um type of uh settings uh and it'll be a um type of uh settings uh and it'll be a um type of uh settings uh and it'll be a bit of a departure from a lot of what bit of a departure from a lot of what bit of a departure from a lot of what we've covered so far I've been primarily we've covered so far I've been primarily we've covered so far I've been primarily methods focused but I think part of my methods focused but I think part of my methods focused but I think part of my goal will be to say something about how goal will be to say something about how goal will be to say something about how most of the topics in this class as a

[1:09] most of the topics in this class as a most of the topics in this class as a sort of technical area fit into the sort of technical area fit into the sort of technical area fit into the scope of uh or the narrower scope of scope of uh or the narrower scope of scope of uh or the narrower scope of focus and um sorry I'll I'll speak of focus and um sorry I'll I'll speak of focus and um sorry I'll I'll speak of the class as a narrower scope and then the class as a narrower scope and then the class as a narrower scope and then the HCI as maybe a potential broader way the HCI as maybe a potential broader way the HCI as maybe a potential broader way of thinking about the kinds of questions of thinking about the kinds of questions of thinking about the kinds of questions that we're interested in solving. Okay. that we're interested in solving. Okay. that we're interested in solving. Okay. So if you're not familiar uh so human So if you're not familiar uh so human So if you're not familiar uh so human computer interaction is broadly uh computer interaction is broadly uh computer interaction is broadly uh discipline that thinks about designing discipline that thinks about designing discipline that thinks about designing technology from a human perspective and

[1:39] technology from a human perspective and technology from a human perspective and is distinguished as compared to uh what is distinguished as compared to uh what is distinguished as compared to uh what I'd argue you know most of engineering I'd argue you know most of engineering I'd argue you know most of engineering computer science is good at which is uh computer science is good at which is uh computer science is good at which is uh starting with a sort of engineering starting with a sort of engineering starting with a sort of engineering problem and and solving directly there. problem and and solving directly there. problem and and solving directly there. Of course I'm going to I'll just Of course I'm going to I'll just Of course I'm going to I'll just actually state this ahead of time. I'm actually state this ahead of time. I'm actually state this ahead of time. I'm going to take you know somewhat going to take you know somewhat going to take you know somewhat caricatured extreme perspectives on many caricatured extreme perspectives on many caricatured extreme perspectives on many fields in order to make a point. Uh fields in order to make a point. Uh fields in order to make a point. Uh indeed everything is much more of a indeed everything is much more of a indeed everything is much more of a spectrum. So things are not nearly as spectrum. So things are not nearly as spectrum. So things are not nearly as extreme as all this. Um but uh a way to

[2:09] extreme as all this. Um but uh a way to extreme as all this. Um but uh a way to think about it is applying the think about it is applying the think about it is applying the scientific method to the art of design. scientific method to the art of design. scientific method to the art of design. Uh and by Nielson uh the rest of the Uh and by Nielson uh the rest of the Uh and by Nielson uh the rest of the code is to eliminate paths that people code is to eliminate paths that people code is to eliminate paths that people actually walk. So maybe set up the problem. There's an So maybe set up the problem. There's an interesting example of something called interesting example of something called interesting example of something called uh Norman doors. So you know come across uh Norman doors. So you know come across uh Norman doors. So you know come across a door and potentially you tried to open a door and potentially you tried to open a door and potentially you tried to open it and you tripped. Imagine many of you it and you tripped. Imagine many of you it and you tripped. Imagine many of you have had versions of this experience. I have had versions of this experience. I have had versions of this experience. I have. Some of you have. And some of the

[2:39] have. Some of you have. And some of the have. Some of you have. And some of the issue might be not knowing exactly how issue might be not knowing exactly how issue might be not knowing exactly how to operate it. So you know is it a push to operate it. So you know is it a push to operate it. So you know is it a push or a pull? It's maybe not obvious. So it or a pull? It's maybe not obvious. So it or a pull? It's maybe not obvious. So it has a handle but what the handle does is has a handle but what the handle does is has a handle but what the handle does is not clear. um or uh so multiple places not clear. um or uh so multiple places not clear. um or uh so multiple places that you could engage the handle, but that you could engage the handle, but that you could engage the handle, but it's not clear uh which one of them is it's not clear uh which one of them is it's not clear uh which one of them is actually the right tool to use or it actually the right tool to use or it actually the right tool to use or it doesn't push or pull like neither is doesn't push or pull like neither is doesn't push or pull like neither is right. It's actually a sliding door. So, right. It's actually a sliding door. So, right. It's actually a sliding door. So, you need to know that it's something you need to know that it's something you need to know that it's something you're supposed to slide. And you know, you're supposed to slide. And you know, you're supposed to slide. And you know, there many ways to to think about this.

[3:10] there many ways to to think about this. there many ways to to think about this. Uh you could say, you know, we're not Uh you could say, you know, we're not Uh you could say, you know, we're not clever enough to engage with technology. clever enough to engage with technology. clever enough to engage with technology. I think I'd argue and dark the thesis of I think I'd argue and dark the thesis of I think I'd argue and dark the thesis of this lecture is that you know that's not this lecture is that you know that's not this lecture is that you know that's not the right way to think about this the right way to think about this the right way to think about this problem. The right way to think about problem. The right way to think about problem. The right way to think about this problem is that it's bad design. So this problem is that it's bad design. So this problem is that it's bad design. So you know there's some infrastructure in you know there's some infrastructure in you know there's some infrastructure in the world uh in this case doors but the world uh in this case doors but the world uh in this case doors but broadly includes technology things like broadly includes technology things like broadly includes technology things like artificial intelligence tools that we're artificial intelligence tools that we're artificial intelligence tools that we're building. Um and they don't work for building. Um and they don't work for building. Um and they don't work for people and the argument is they don't people and the argument is they don't people and the argument is they don't work for people because they're not work for people because they're not work for people because they're not designed appropriately. And so one could

[3:40] designed appropriately. And so one could designed appropriately. And so one could think about what can be done differently think about what can be done differently think about what can be done differently uh to help him work better for people. uh to help him work better for people. uh to help him work better for people. And I'd argue that a lot of what this And I'd argue that a lot of what this And I'd argue that a lot of what this class is about um at least the framing class is about um at least the framing class is about um at least the framing I'll take though I think there might be I'll take though I think there might be I'll take though I think there might be other ways to think about this but the other ways to think about this but the other ways to think about this but the framing I'll take is that learning from framing I'll take is that learning from framing I'll take is that learning from human preferences is a powerful tool as human preferences is a powerful tool as human preferences is a powerful tool as part of the toolbox of building AI part of the toolbox of building AI part of the toolbox of building AI technologies uh that work better for technologies uh that work better for technologies uh that work better for people. So uh you know this is a bit of people. So uh you know this is a bit of people. So uh you know this is a bit of a analogy but you can think of by the a analogy but you can think of by the a analogy but you can think of by the way Norman is the author of the uh paper

[4:10] way Norman is the author of the uh paper way Norman is the author of the uh paper the book at the bottom that's sort of the book at the bottom that's sort of the book at the bottom that's sort of framing of this design thinking approach framing of this design thinking approach framing of this design thinking approach uh but as mentioned you can think about uh but as mentioned you can think about uh but as mentioned you can think about this you know within AI not just about this you know within AI not just about this you know within AI not just about doors so for instance you know for a doors so for instance you know for a doors so for instance you know for a door the question that you're interested door the question that you're interested door the question that you're interested in asking is how do I get into a room in asking is how do I get into a room in asking is how do I get into a room you know push pull slide all that stuff you know push pull slide all that stuff you know push pull slide all that stuff but the AI had some version of at least but the AI had some version of at least but the AI had some version of at least for most people when engaging with AI for most people when engaging with AI for most people when engaging with AI technologies the question of how do I technologies the question of how do I technologies the question of how do I solve particular task using some AI tool solve particular task using some AI tool solve particular task using some AI tool u and so that's the sort of what the u and so that's the sort of what the u and so that's the sort of what the user wants to do when engaging with the

[4:40] user wants to do when engaging with the user wants to do when engaging with the technology technology technology there's also you know what the user there's also you know what the user there's also you know what the user actually ends up doing so this is you actually ends up doing so this is you actually ends up doing so this is you know maybe asking themselves how do I know maybe asking themselves how do I know maybe asking themselves how do I operate the door to actually get into operate the door to actually get into operate the door to actually get into the other room so this is a standard the other room so this is a standard the other room so this is a standard thing and AI maybe you know given we're thing and AI maybe you know given we're thing and AI maybe you know given we're in 2024 for specifically maybe in in 2024 for specifically maybe in in 2024 for specifically maybe in language models the main affordance the language models the main affordance the language models the main affordance the main way we engage is maybe what's the main way we engage is maybe what's the main way we engage is maybe what's the special prompt magic prompt I need so special prompt magic prompt I need so special prompt magic prompt I need so that I can get this language model to do that I can get this language model to do that I can get this language model to do the thing that I want it to do um so

[5:13] the thing that I want it to do um so the thing that I want it to do um so again in some ways again in some ways again in some ways now it's it's the the way the world is now it's it's the the way the world is now it's it's the the way the world is now but I think you one might argue it now but I think you one might argue it now but I think you one might argue it is really weird that this is the way the is really weird that this is the way the is really weird that this is the way the world is like we built this tool world is like we built this tool world is like we built this tool ostensibly to solve various kinds of ostensibly to solve various kinds of ostensibly to solve various kinds of tasks but the way that we have to engage tasks but the way that we have to engage tasks but the way that we have to engage includes this mental told gymnastics of includes this mental told gymnastics of includes this mental told gymnastics of can I create some magic prompt that does can I create some magic prompt that does can I create some magic prompt that does something. Um and finally there's the something. Um and finally there's the something. Um and finally there's the question of you know user engages maybe question of you know user engages maybe question of you know user engages maybe learns over time and then answers this learns over time and then answers this learns over time and then answers this question of how do I actually learn to

[5:43] question of how do I actually learn to question of how do I actually learn to use this tool. Um, and in, you know, use this tool. Um, and in, you know, use this tool. Um, and in, you know, built environments, things like doors built environments, things like doors built environments, things like doors might be things like learn from previous might be things like learn from previous might be things like learn from previous encounters. Uh, you know, usually if you encounters. Uh, you know, usually if you encounters. Uh, you know, usually if you bump into a door, you won't bump into it bump into a door, you won't bump into it bump into a door, you won't bump into it again. At least not in a near term. again. At least not in a near term. again. At least not in a near term. Maybe if you forget it, you're not Maybe if you forget it, you're not Maybe if you forget it, you're not thinking or you read labels or you guess thinking or you read labels or you guess thinking or you read labels or you guess maybe your most likely thing that might maybe your most likely thing that might maybe your most likely thing that might work and then try and then try again and work and then try and then try again and work and then try and then try again and hopefully it works eventually. uh for AI hopefully it works eventually. uh for AI hopefully it works eventually. uh for AI tools might be things like you know tools might be things like you know tools might be things like you know there's now some

[6:15] there's now some there's now some uh there's a word for it which isn't uh there's a word for it which isn't uh there's a word for it which isn't coming but special sauce about how to coming but special sauce about how to coming but special sauce about how to create good prompts talk to other people create good prompts talk to other people create good prompts talk to other people it's a bit of this extra art thing it's a bit of this extra art thing it's a bit of this extra art thing that's not science but not science that's not science but not science that's not science but not science people talk about is this magic prompt people talk about is this magic prompt people talk about is this magic prompt that does certain thing or someone has that does certain thing or someone has that does certain thing or someone has you know people have done these prompt you know people have done these prompt you know people have done these prompt guidelines uh a bunch of influencers as guidelines uh a bunch of influencers as guidelines uh a bunch of influencers as you may know have done these guidelines you may know have done these guidelines you may know have done these guidelines for how to create magic prompts and you for how to create magic prompts and you for how to create magic prompts and you know many of them effective because know many of them effective because know many of them effective because again there's a problem that people are again there's a problem that people are again there's a problem that people are trying to solve or I'd argue most of us trying to solve or I'd argue most of us trying to solve or I'd argue most of us just sort of play till we figure out just sort of play till we figure out just sort of play till we figure out something that works. Um the thing to

[6:46] something that works. Um the thing to something that works. Um the thing to highlight here though you know again highlight here though you know again highlight here though you know again this is a real problem in AI technology this is a real problem in AI technology this is a real problem in AI technology as it's used and the argument here is as it's used and the argument here is as it's used and the argument here is that in in a at least well-designed that in in a at least well-designed that in in a at least well-designed world it's reasonable to argue that this world it's reasonable to argue that this world it's reasonable to argue that this shouldn't be a problem like this is a shouldn't be a problem like this is a shouldn't be a problem like this is a failure of our design of the tool that failure of our design of the tool that failure of our design of the tool that there's this key part of engaging that there's this key part of engaging that there's this key part of engaging that requires this sort of messy unclear uh requires this sort of messy unclear uh requires this sort of messy unclear uh unclear process also unclear outcomes unclear process also unclear outcomes unclear process also unclear outcomes right because you actually don't know right because you actually don't know right because you actually don't know what you're going I get I'll engage a

[7:16] what you're going I get I'll engage a what you're going I get I'll engage a little bit on the prompting thing uh in little bit on the prompting thing uh in little bit on the prompting thing uh in a little bit. Um any questions on the a little bit. Um any questions on the a little bit. Um any questions on the setup? So this sort of this idea of setup? So this sort of this idea of setup? So this sort of this idea of design broadly this analogy between design broadly this analogy between design broadly this analogy between doors and build environments and sort of doors and build environments and sort of doors and build environments and sort of AI technology. Yes. AI technology. Yes. AI technology. Yes. &gt;&gt; I feel like for doors or like more &gt;&gt; I feel like for doors or like more &gt;&gt; I feel like for doors or like more broadly maybe the people who built the broadly maybe the people who built the broadly maybe the people who built the door would have a good understanding of door would have a good understanding of door would have a good understanding of it. it. it. &gt;&gt; That's a good point. &gt;&gt; That's a good point. &gt;&gt; That's a good point. &gt;&gt; I don't know if that extends. &gt;&gt; I don't know if that extends. &gt;&gt; I don't know if that extends. I I honestly extends. That's a I I honestly extends. That's a I I honestly extends. That's a fascinating point. So I guess there's an

[7:46] fascinating point. So I guess there's an fascinating point. So I guess there's an argument that in addition to the design argument that in addition to the design argument that in addition to the design issue, maybe one of the reasons why issue, maybe one of the reasons why issue, maybe one of the reasons why blame is easier I'll infer from your blame is easier I'll infer from your blame is easier I'll infer from your question is that in the in the door question is that in the in the door question is that in the in the door setting, we could argue that the people setting, we could argue that the people setting, we could argue that the people designing doors know a lot about doors. designing doors know a lot about doors. designing doors know a lot about doors. Uh and so the the gap there is partially Uh and so the the gap there is partially Uh and so the the gap there is partially just not making it easy for users to just not making it easy for users to just not making it easy for users to engage. And I think your argument I'm engage. And I think your argument I'm engage. And I think your argument I'm repeating but I think accurate that uh repeating but I think accurate that uh repeating but I think accurate that uh in AI part of the gap is that we don't in AI part of the gap is that we don't in AI part of the gap is that we don't know that much about the internals of

[8:17] know that much about the internals of know that much about the internals of the tools. the tools. the tools. Yes and no. Um I'll give some examples Yes and no. Um I'll give some examples Yes and no. Um I'll give some examples of some ways that one can close some of of some ways that one can close some of of some ways that one can close some of this gap. That'll be actually the main this gap. That'll be actually the main this gap. That'll be actually the main thesis of the talk today. Um thesis of the talk today. Um thesis of the talk today. Um I think you're right that we don't I think you're right that we don't I think you're right that we don't I guess we know we don't know is this I guess we know we don't know is this I guess we know we don't know is this mix of knowledge uh some scientific some mix of knowledge uh some scientific some mix of knowledge uh some scientific some emerging some folklore about what works emerging some folklore about what works emerging some folklore about what works and what doesn't work um I think it's a and what doesn't work um I think it's a and what doesn't work um I think it's a little bit separate from how can we make little bit separate from how can we make little bit separate from how can we make it in tools that are you know thought of it in tools that are you know thought of it in tools that are you know thought of as stable enough to be products for

[8:48] as stable enough to be products for as stable enough to be products for instance and released in the world what instance and released in the world what instance and released in the world what can are there affordances are there are can are there affordances are there are can are there affordances are there are there things that can be done to make there things that can be done to make there things that can be done to make them easier to use And the main argument them easier to use And the main argument them easier to use And the main argument will be or at least part of the will be or at least part of the will be or at least part of the discussion today will be I think yes discussion today will be I think yes discussion today will be I think yes even though we may not know all of the even though we may not know all of the even though we may not know all of the internals. So it's not clear to me for internals. So it's not clear to me for internals. So it's not clear to me for sure it makes the problem harder for sure it makes the problem harder for sure it makes the problem harder for sure. Um there are some interventions sure. Um there are some interventions sure. Um there are some interventions that would be straightforward in a door that would be straightforward in a door that would be straightforward in a door setting that would be setting that would be setting that would be unclear. in particular, you know, a lot

[9:18] unclear. in particular, you know, a lot unclear. in particular, you know, a lot of our tools will build on some of our tools will build on some of our tools will build on some optimization technique uh which we sort optimization technique uh which we sort optimization technique uh which we sort of we hope works and is stable and works of we hope works and is stable and works of we hope works and is stable and works appropriately across contexts and so appropriately across contexts and so appropriately across contexts and so there may be some brittleleness and uh there may be some brittleleness and uh there may be some brittleleness and uh some of the ways that we can mitigate some of the ways that we can mitigate some of the ways that we can mitigate some of these issues that may not be as some of these issues that may not be as some of these issues that may not be as bad in the door case where you deeply bad in the door case where you deeply bad in the door case where you deeply understand the technology. I think understand the technology. I think understand the technology. I think that's fair. Uh but I want to separate that's fair. Uh but I want to separate that's fair. Uh but I want to separate that from trying at all uh and sort of that from trying at all uh and sort of that from trying at all uh and sort of building tools so that they're usable building tools so that they're usable building tools so that they're usable and better designed. Excellent. and better designed. Excellent. and better designed. Excellent. Excellent point. Excellent point. Excellent point. Thoughts, questions?

[9:56] Okay. So, you know, one could argue that Okay. So, you know, one could argue that the goal should be, in fact, if a the goal should be, in fact, if a the goal should be, in fact, if a technology is designed well enough, you technology is designed well enough, you technology is designed well enough, you should actually not know uh that a lot should actually not know uh that a lot should actually not know uh that a lot of effort was put in. It's actually it's of effort was put in. It's actually it's of effort was put in. It's actually it's one of these weird things where the more one of these weird things where the more one of these weird things where the more you're deeply aware of of the work, you're deeply aware of of the work, you're deeply aware of of the work, likely the worse the actual technology likely the worse the actual technology likely the worse the actual technology is. And somehow you get no credit if you is. And somehow you get no credit if you is. And somehow you get no credit if you do a perfect job because it disappears do a perfect job because it disappears do a perfect job because it disappears in many ways. And so this quote from in many ways. And so this quote from in many ways. And so this quote from Mark Weezer says, "The most profound Mark Weezer says, "The most profound Mark Weezer says, "The most profound technologies are those that disappear. technologies are those that disappear. technologies are those that disappear. They weave themselves to the fabric of

[10:26] They weave themselves to the fabric of They weave themselves to the fabric of everyday life until they're everyday life until they're everyday life until they're indistinguishable from it." So I think I indistinguishable from it." So I think I indistinguishable from it." So I think I mean partially this is also part of if mean partially this is also part of if mean partially this is also part of if you like human psychology where we once you like human psychology where we once you like human psychology where we once things get easy and straightforward things get easy and straightforward things get easy and straightforward enough we sort of it comes to the enough we sort of it comes to the enough we sort of it comes to the background and it's automatic and we're background and it's automatic and we're background and it's automatic and we're not thinking hard about a particular uh not thinking hard about a particular uh not thinking hard about a particular uh way of engaging with technology so we're way of engaging with technology so we're way of engaging with technology so we're just used to it. Um I mean some of this just used to it. Um I mean some of this just used to it. Um I mean some of this can come from practice and overall can come from practice and overall can come from practice and overall engagement. We'll I'll talk give some engagement. We'll I'll talk give some engagement. We'll I'll talk give some examples there but I think a lot of it examples there but I think a lot of it examples there but I think a lot of it can be just better designed such that can be just better designed such that can be just better designed such that it's just intuitive. there's not a big

[10:57] it's just intuitive. there's not a big it's just intuitive. there's not a big learning curve for engaging with learning curve for engaging with learning curve for engaging with technology. technology. technology. So, you know, for instance, you don't So, you know, for instance, you don't So, you know, for instance, you don't require an instruction manual. You use require an instruction manual. You use require an instruction manual. You use it once or twice and, you know, uh you it once or twice and, you know, uh you it once or twice and, you know, uh you will barely feel it or at least you will barely feel it or at least you will barely feel it or at least you never think about having to, you know, never think about having to, you know, never think about having to, you know, figure out what to do uh from that point figure out what to do uh from that point figure out what to do uh from that point on. So, you know, some good examples of on. So, you know, some good examples of on. So, you know, some good examples of this might be things like various kinds this might be things like various kinds this might be things like various kinds of pointing devices, even though mine of pointing devices, even though mine of pointing devices, even though mine does some weird things. Okay, now does some weird things. Okay, now does some weird things. Okay, now actually not working. So, actually not working. So, actually not working. So, it's a different issue. um things like

[11:27] it's a different issue. um things like it's a different issue. um things like touchscreens. I think this will actually touchscreens. I think this will actually touchscreens. I think this will actually work. Okay, it does work. Yeah, again work. Okay, it does work. Yeah, again work. Okay, it does work. Yeah, again technologies that are intuitive and part technologies that are intuitive and part technologies that are intuitive and part of the discussion would be about ways in of the discussion would be about ways in of the discussion would be about ways in which AI technology itself can be made which AI technology itself can be made which AI technology itself can be made to be more intuitive and easy to engage to be more intuitive and easy to engage to be more intuitive and easy to engage with and then we'll dabble or at least with and then we'll dabble or at least with and then we'll dabble or at least mention some of the ways that some of mention some of the ways that some of mention some of the ways that some of the preference work we've been going the preference work we've been going the preference work we've been going over might uh make this more effective. over might uh make this more effective. over might uh make this more effective. Okay. So, you know, how do people who Okay. So, you know, how do people who Okay. So, you know, how do people who think about this think about this? Um so think about this think about this? Um so think about this think about this? Um so one way to think about it is to think

[11:58] one way to think about it is to think one way to think about it is to think about you know bridging the gap between about you know bridging the gap between about you know bridging the gap between uh what humans uh what humans uh what humans uh can do or human function broadly uh uh can do or human function broadly uh uh can do or human function broadly uh human enga humans engage with uh human enga humans engage with uh human enga humans engage with uh technology or tools and then what technology or tools and then what technology or tools and then what computers may or may not be good at and computers may or may not be good at and computers may or may not be good at and both axes are important because both axes are important because both axes are important because technology evolves and gets better over technology evolves and gets better over technology evolves and gets better over time and I think as it gets better it time and I think as it gets better it time and I think as it gets better it makes it easier to think often as it makes it easier to think often as it makes it easier to think often as it gets uh as it advances is it often makes gets uh as it advances is it often makes gets uh as it advances is it often makes it easier to imagine ways that you could

[12:28] it easier to imagine ways that you could it easier to imagine ways that you could uh better bridge the gap between uh better bridge the gap between uh better bridge the gap between technology function and human technology function and human technology function and human functioning. Um so you know on the functioning. Um so you know on the functioning. Um so you know on the direction of expanding direction of expanding direction of expanding extending computers you know you go all extending computers you know you go all extending computers you know you go all the way from uh early technology like the way from uh early technology like the way from uh early technology like punch cards which were actually punch cards which were actually punch cards which were actually literally the way I I have seen a punch literally the way I I have seen a punch literally the way I I have seen a punch card. I've never used one. I'm just you card. I've never used one. I'm just you card. I've never used one. I'm just you know I'm going to stereotype and say know I'm going to stereotype and say know I'm going to stereotype and say none of you have used a punch card none of you have used a punch card none of you have used a punch card either. It's possible. I'll be either. It's possible. I'll be either. It's possible. I'll be surprised. Uh as you know the way the surprised. Uh as you know the way the surprised. Uh as you know the way the technology actually got built um all the technology actually got built um all the technology actually got built um all the way to command line which still used

[12:59] way to command line which still used way to command line which still used still useful but requires high expertise still useful but requires high expertise still useful but requires high expertise and so useful for uh settings where and so useful for uh settings where and so useful for uh settings where that's the ideal but arguably has moved that's the ideal but arguably has moved that's the ideal but arguably has moved over time to things like gooies or over time to things like gooies or over time to things like gooies or graphical user interfaces easier for graphical user interfaces easier for graphical user interfaces easier for people to engage with pictures that look people to engage with pictures that look people to engage with pictures that look like the thing that they want to do. Uh like the thing that they want to do. Uh like the thing that they want to do. Uh pointing devices touch screens all all pointing devices touch screens all all pointing devices touch screens all all that stuff. And so one way to think that stuff. And so one way to think that stuff. And so one way to think about I mean of course some of this is about I mean of course some of this is about I mean of course some of this is explaining technology after I think a explaining technology after I think a explaining technology after I think a lot of this is really though technology lot of this is really though technology lot of this is really though technology built to meet certain needs make it

[13:30] built to meet certain needs make it built to meet certain needs make it easier for people to interface uh with easier for people to interface uh with easier for people to interface uh with computers. Um but the argument here is computers. Um but the argument here is computers. Um but the argument here is that this is one of the ways that that this is one of the ways that that this is one of the ways that particularly in personal computing we've particularly in personal computing we've particularly in personal computing we've been able to make some effort into been able to make some effort into been able to make some effort into bridging the gap between uh some of what bridging the gap between uh some of what bridging the gap between uh some of what computers uh initially were good at to computers uh initially were good at to computers uh initially were good at to some of what uh humans find easy to do some of what uh humans find easy to do some of what uh humans find easy to do and so it's sort of ubiquitous and easy and so it's sort of ubiquitous and easy and so it's sort of ubiquitous and easy to engage. Um so to engage. Um so to engage. Um so uh on the guey some of the thinking uh on the guey some of the thinking uh on the guey some of the thinking would be things like as I already

[14:01] would be things like as I already would be things like as I already mentioned know metaphors for objects. So mentioned know metaphors for objects. So mentioned know metaphors for objects. So you know the icon looks like the thing you know the icon looks like the thing you know the icon looks like the thing you want to do. Um for pointing devices, you want to do. Um for pointing devices, you want to do. Um for pointing devices, things like actions that you want to things like actions that you want to things like actions that you want to take and making that somewhat intuitive. take and making that somewhat intuitive. take and making that somewhat intuitive. Arguably this is a lot of effort done in Arguably this is a lot of effort done in Arguably this is a lot of effort done in this in phones for instance to make them this in phones for instance to make them this in phones for instance to make them more and more intuitive and easier to more and more intuitive and easier to more and more intuitive and easier to use. Um and our you know as as you know use. Um and our you know as as you know use. Um and our you know as as you know a lot of this is evolving. So there's a lot of this is evolving. So there's a lot of this is evolving. So there's more and more technology being built more and more technology being built more and more technology being built often with the express purpose of making often with the express purpose of making often with the express purpose of making it easier to interface the technology. it easier to interface the technology. it easier to interface the technology. So now we'll see where things go but a

[14:31] So now we'll see where things go but a So now we'll see where things go but a lot of work in VR AR stuff like that is lot of work in VR AR stuff like that is lot of work in VR AR stuff like that is you could argue is you know again trying you could argue is you know again trying you could argue is you know again trying to figure out this bridge making to figure out this bridge making to figure out this bridge making interfacing with computing uh easier. interfacing with computing uh easier. interfacing with computing uh easier. Yes. Yes. Yes. &gt;&gt; I guess what's the difference between &gt;&gt; I guess what's the difference between &gt;&gt; I guess what's the difference between the extending human versus extending the extending human versus extending the extending human versus extending computer like what's the distinction computer like what's the distinction computer like what's the distinction exactly there? exactly there? exactly there? &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think it's more um this will &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think it's more um this will &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I think it's more um this will come back again in a little bit but the come back again in a little bit but the come back again in a little bit but the story being told here is um on one side story being told here is um on one side story being told here is um on one side of things so I'm calling it a story

[15:02] of things so I'm calling it a story of things so I'm calling it a story because to your point and maybe to this because to your point and maybe to this because to your point and maybe to this discussion part of it is just natural discussion part of it is just natural discussion part of it is just natural technology getting better part of it is technology getting better part of it is technology getting better part of it is intentional design thinking to make it intentional design thinking to make it intentional design thinking to make it easier for people to engage now I'm easier for people to engage now I'm easier for people to engage now I'm focusing on the second part which is the focusing on the second part which is the focusing on the second part which is the intentional design thinking and so the intentional design thinking and so the intentional design thinking and so the story being told here is, you know, uh, story being told here is, you know, uh, story being told here is, you know, uh, punch cards and command lines partially punch cards and command lines partially punch cards and command lines partially were a result of what was available and were a result of what was available and were a result of what was available and possible to do and computers first possible to do and computers first possible to do and computers first became a thing. But also, um, the reason became a thing. But also, um, the reason became a thing. But also, um, the reason that interfaces changed was

[15:33] that interfaces changed was that interfaces changed was intentionally as a way to bridge sort of intentionally as a way to bridge sort of intentionally as a way to bridge sort of easy human cognitive uh, processes and easy human cognitive uh, processes and easy human cognitive uh, processes and sort of ease of interacting. So the the sort of ease of interacting. So the the sort of ease of interacting. So the the the point being made or maybe I'll tell the point being made or maybe I'll tell the point being made or maybe I'll tell a different story. There's an alternate a different story. There's an alternate a different story. There's an alternate world where technology got better in the world where technology got better in the world where technology got better in the ways that you know arguably many of us ways that you know arguably many of us ways that you know arguably many of us in this room will think of technology in this room will think of technology in this room will think of technology getting better gets faster all the getting better gets faster all the getting better gets faster all the things GPUs do for instance so a better things GPUs do for instance so a better things GPUs do for instance so a better and better GPU doesn't necessarily help and better GPU doesn't necessarily help and better GPU doesn't necessarily help a user and it very indirectly helps a a user and it very indirectly helps a a user and it very indirectly helps a user's experience uh there's a

[16:03] user's experience uh there's a user's experience uh there's a difference between thinking of the difference between thinking of the difference between thinking of the computing effort as just making computing effort as just making computing effort as just making computers more I don't know better at computers more I don't know better at computers more I don't know better at being computers at some metric that being computers at some metric that being computers at some metric that we've decided or what a good computer we've decided or what a good computer we've decided or what a good computer is, speed, parallel processing, uh is, speed, parallel processing, uh is, speed, parallel processing, uh things like that versus intentionally things like that versus intentionally things like that versus intentionally trying to think through what makes it trying to think through what makes it trying to think through what makes it easy for people to engage with easy for people to engage with easy for people to engage with technology and then what can we build to technology and then what can we build to technology and then what can we build to make that uh interface engagement make that uh interface engagement make that uh interface engagement easier. That's the sort of analogy and easier. That's the sort of analogy and easier. That's the sort of analogy and distinction I'm trying to share. distinction I'm trying to share. distinction I'm trying to share. Excellent question. Thank you. Excellent question. Thank you. Excellent question. Thank you. &gt;&gt; Cool. Okay. Um so you know arguably

[16:36] &gt;&gt; Cool. Okay. Um so you know arguably &gt;&gt; Cool. Okay. Um so you know arguably we're on this road and there are many we're on this road and there are many we're on this road and there are many people whose job it is to actually think people whose job it is to actually think people whose job it is to actually think about this uh within computing uh how to about this uh within computing uh how to about this uh within computing uh how to build interfaces and and things like build interfaces and and things like build interfaces and and things like that. Um I think more and more so some that. Um I think more and more so some that. Um I think more and more so some of these questions are starting to come of these questions are starting to come of these questions are starting to come up in the AI world as well. So you know up in the AI world as well. So you know up in the AI world as well. So you know as a part of technology but specifically as a part of technology but specifically as a part of technology but specifically we're building uh machine learning we're building uh machine learning we're building uh machine learning artificial intelligence tools. um this artificial intelligence tools. um this artificial intelligence tools. um this question of uh what it means to get a question of uh what it means to get a question of uh what it means to get a better AI tool from a purely technical

[17:07] better AI tool from a purely technical better AI tool from a purely technical like just it has a better AI tool versus like just it has a better AI tool versus like just it has a better AI tool versus what it means to make it easier for what it means to make it easier for what it means to make it easier for people to interface with the AI tool and people to interface with the AI tool and people to interface with the AI tool and sort of solve problems that they're sort of solve problems that they're sort of solve problems that they're interested in assuming that's the main interested in assuming that's the main interested in assuming that's the main motivation for this. Um so you know from motivation for this. Um so you know from motivation for this. Um so you know from the AI side um many of the early ways of the AI side um many of the early ways of the AI side um many of the early ways of engaging with AI technology required engaging with AI technology required engaging with AI technology required that you're an expert essentially so that you're an expert essentially so that you're an expert essentially so you're writing code as a way to engage you're writing code as a way to engage you're writing code as a way to engage with the tool. Um with the tool. Um with the tool. Um now there's a bunch of prompting. So you

[17:37] now there's a bunch of prompting. So you now there's a bunch of prompting. So you know it's it's not know it's it's not know it's it's not uh it doesn't need expertise in the same uh it doesn't need expertise in the same uh it doesn't need expertise in the same exact way. It's a different kind of exact way. It's a different kind of exact way. It's a different kind of expertise, but it is still like a expertise, but it is still like a expertise, but it is still like a somewhat specialized skill as we've somewhat specialized skill as we've somewhat specialized skill as we've already discussed. Um, and arguably already discussed. Um, and arguably already discussed. Um, and arguably chatting chatting chatting while related to prompting sometimes, while related to prompting sometimes, while related to prompting sometimes, uh, some of the interfaces are brought uh, some of the interfaces are brought uh, some of the interfaces are brought up in ways that are maybe up in ways that are maybe up in ways that are maybe less specialized and easier for people less specialized and easier for people less specialized and easier for people to engage with. U I guess mostly to engage with. U I guess mostly to engage with. U I guess mostly language technologies here, but I think language technologies here, but I think language technologies here, but I think I think this is also true for any

[18:08] I think this is also true for any I think this is also true for any technologies. Um you know I think we are technologies. Um you know I think we are technologies. Um you know I think we are in many ways bridging the gap in in many ways bridging the gap in in many ways bridging the gap in usability usability usability at least by the story meaning the gap at least by the story meaning the gap at least by the story meaning the gap from having using code as a way to from having using code as a way to from having using code as a way to interface to using uh prompting as a way interface to using uh prompting as a way interface to using uh prompting as a way to interface to now maybe using chatting to interface to now maybe using chatting to interface to now maybe using chatting as a way to interface. In some ways uh a as a way to interface. In some ways uh a as a way to interface. In some ways uh a lot of success is driven by the fact lot of success is driven by the fact lot of success is driven by the fact that it's partially just easier for that it's partially just easier for that it's partially just easier for people particularly non uh expertly people particularly non uh expertly people particularly non uh expertly trained people to think about solving trained people to think about solving trained people to think about solving real problems with these tools. Um I

[18:39] real problems with these tools. Um I real problems with these tools. Um I think part of the argument here is think part of the argument here is think part of the argument here is or there's an explicit argument here or there's an explicit argument here or there's an explicit argument here that this is not complete. There's still that this is not complete. There's still that this is not complete. There's still more uh I mean arguably these things are more uh I mean arguably these things are more uh I mean arguably these things are maybe never complete. The whole point is maybe never complete. The whole point is maybe never complete. The whole point is make it easier and easier but the chasm make it easier and easier but the chasm make it easier and easier but the chasm seems wider here than it does maybe in seems wider here than it does maybe in seems wider here than it does maybe in general computing and like what are the general computing and like what are the general computing and like what are the interfaces and what are the affordances interfaces and what are the affordances interfaces and what are the affordances that can be built that make it easier that can be built that make it easier that can be built that make it easier for people to use AI tools to solve for people to use AI tools to solve for people to use AI tools to solve problems that they actually want to problems that they actually want to problems that they actually want to solve. Yes. solve. Yes. solve. Yes. &gt;&gt; What do you think about Neurolink for

[19:10] &gt;&gt; What do you think about Neurolink for &gt;&gt; What do you think about Neurolink for example? example? example? &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, uh, this is a good question. So, uh, this is a good question. So, uh, this is a good question. So, Neurolink being, you know, technology to Neurolink being, you know, technology to Neurolink being, you know, technology to directly plug into your brain and, uh, I directly plug into your brain and, uh, I directly plug into your brain and, uh, I guess guess guess it's not obvious to me that it's built it's not obvious to me that it's built it's not obvious to me that it's built specifically for AI. I think it's more specifically for AI. I think it's more specifically for AI. I think it's more for like I don't know as an interface for like I don't know as an interface for like I don't know as an interface choice maybe. Um, choice maybe. Um, choice maybe. Um, of course, any interface choice has an of course, any interface choice has an of course, any interface choice has an impact or will likely have an impact on impact or will likely have an impact on impact or will likely have an impact on AI technology because it can just be AI technology because it can just be AI technology because it can just be like the end point. Uh, it's an

[19:40] like the end point. Uh, it's an like the end point. Uh, it's an interesting idea. Uh, it's interesting interesting idea. Uh, it's interesting interesting idea. Uh, it's interesting idea. I mean, I think practically idea. I mean, I think practically idea. I mean, I think practically it it it I mean now I'm just speculating wildly, I mean now I'm just speculating wildly, I mean now I'm just speculating wildly, but you asked, so I'm happy to speculate but you asked, so I'm happy to speculate but you asked, so I'm happy to speculate wildly. Uh, I think adoption will take wildly. Uh, I think adoption will take wildly. Uh, I think adoption will take some time. I think different people will some time. I think different people will some time. I think different people will have different amounts of ease of have different amounts of ease of have different amounts of ease of imagining like something implanted in imagining like something implanted in imagining like something implanted in your brain as a way to interface your brain as a way to interface your brain as a way to interface technology. Uh I think the current technology. Uh I think the current technology. Uh I think the current technology is very impressive. It's not

[20:13] technology is very impressive. It's not technology is very impressive. It's not so easy to use that it sort of so easy to use that it sort of so easy to use that it sort of completely solves the problem. So yes, completely solves the problem. So yes, completely solves the problem. So yes, you can think about but my understanding you can think about but my understanding you can think about but my understanding and this is not from expertise. is from and this is not from expertise. is from and this is not from expertise. is from a few conversations and maybe looking at a few conversations and maybe looking at a few conversations and maybe looking at a few things that you do need to be a few things that you do need to be a few things that you do need to be thinking sort of fairly specialized like thinking sort of fairly specialized like thinking sort of fairly specialized like it's still quite limited in bandwidth it's still quite limited in bandwidth it's still quite limited in bandwidth and how you can interface with and how you can interface with and how you can interface with technology as a computing interface technology as a computing interface technology as a computing interface device. Uh so you know could one imagine device. Uh so you know could one imagine device. Uh so you know could one imagine something implantable that if you know something implantable that if you know something implantable that if you know eventually makes it just intuitive and eventually makes it just intuitive and eventually makes it just intuitive and and easy perhaps. Uh I think there lots

[20:46] and easy perhaps. Uh I think there lots and easy perhaps. Uh I think there lots of fun problems that seem of fun problems that seem of fun problems that seem additional to the technology problems to additional to the technology problems to additional to the technology problems to that being ubiquitous which one is just that being ubiquitous which one is just that being ubiquitous which one is just fixing technology such that it's really fixing technology such that it's really fixing technology such that it's really truly easy to use uh but also it's the truly easy to use uh but also it's the truly easy to use uh but also it's the social governance problem uh which I social governance problem uh which I social governance problem uh which I think will be fun uh and who's ready to think will be fun uh and who's ready to think will be fun uh and who's ready to go under you know get something go under you know get something go under you know get something implanted in your brain it's still a implanted in your brain it's still a implanted in your brain it's still a risky procedure I think it's still risky procedure I think it's still risky procedure I think it's still mostly mostly mostly most uh most uh most uh to my knowledge people that have been

[21:17] to my knowledge people that have been to my knowledge people that have been most positively affected by other people most positively affected by other people most positively affected by other people where really it's solving a explicit where really it's solving a explicit where really it's solving a explicit problem because they there's some problem because they there's some problem because they there's some disease or neurological disorder or disease or neurological disorder or disease or neurological disorder or something else that they can't actually something else that they can't actually something else that they can't actually literally in the face of the world and literally in the face of the world and literally in the face of the world and this is the thing that's solving which this is the thing that's solving which this is the thing that's solving which is a very different ask maybe extremely is a very different ask maybe extremely is a very different ask maybe extremely important and solving a need uh but I important and solving a need uh but I important and solving a need uh but I assumed you said it in the context of assumed you said it in the context of assumed you said it in the context of like will this be the technology that like will this be the technology that like will this be the technology that bridges the gap and uh both technology bridges the gap and uh both technology bridges the gap and uh both technology needs more work. I think this is also needs more work. I think this is also needs more work. I think this is also social governance things would be social governance things would be social governance things would be interesting to solve if that's the way

[21:48] interesting to solve if that's the way interesting to solve if that's the way &gt;&gt; at this point we're speculating. Yeah. &gt;&gt; at this point we're speculating. Yeah. &gt;&gt; at this point we're speculating. Yeah. &gt;&gt; How much of human functioning or like &gt;&gt; How much of human functioning or like &gt;&gt; How much of human functioning or like can we consider like education like I can we consider like education like I can we consider like education like I guess in the example of learning how to guess in the example of learning how to guess in the example of learning how to read this question where you never have read this question where you never have read this question where you never have to learn how to read. Yeah. to learn how to read. Yeah. to learn how to read. Yeah. &gt;&gt; It's just like dictated to you. &gt;&gt; It's just like dictated to you. &gt;&gt; It's just like dictated to you. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. That's a good question. Um and I &gt;&gt; Yeah. That's a good question. Um and I &gt;&gt; Yeah. That's a good question. Um and I think correctly noted that it's a bit think correctly noted that it's a bit think correctly noted that it's a bit fuzzy in the description here because fuzzy in the description here because fuzzy in the description here because there's this assumption that uh ease of there's this assumption that uh ease of there's this assumption that uh ease of use is a zero learning curve thing use is a zero learning curve thing use is a zero learning curve thing whereas there's a cit context and many whereas there's a cit context and many whereas there's a cit context and many people that use technology sort of

[22:18] people that use technology sort of people that use technology sort of educated a certain way and so for educated a certain way and so for educated a certain way and so for instance you know typing or I guess instance you know typing or I guess instance you know typing or I guess pointing maybe doesn't necessarily need pointing maybe doesn't necessarily need pointing maybe doesn't necessarily need specialized education as my kids have specialized education as my kids have specialized education as my kids have taught me but like typing uh or other taught me but like typing uh or other taught me but like typing uh or other like also just knowing the right like also just knowing the right like also just knowing the right questions to ask or what you want to questions to ask or what you want to questions to ask or what you want to solve, right? Sometimes I think it's an solve, right? Sometimes I think it's an solve, right? Sometimes I think it's an interesting question. Um interesting question. Um interesting question. Um I think it depends on I mean it's a I think it depends on I mean it's a I think it depends on I mean it's a non-statement but I think true depends non-statement but I think true depends non-statement but I think true depends on the setting context and all that on the setting context and all that on the setting context and all that stuff. Um I think the way I want to

[22:48] stuff. Um I think the way I want to stuff. Um I think the way I want to think about it here though is um I think think about it here though is um I think think about it here though is um I think a good target actually we'll we'll get a good target actually we'll we'll get a good target actually we'll we'll get to some specifics of this. Uh I think to some specifics of this. Uh I think to some specifics of this. Uh I think the right way to think about these the right way to think about these the right way to think about these questions are really deeply questions are really deeply questions are really deeply contextualized. So who's the people who contextualized. So who's the people who contextualized. So who's the people who are the people? What are you trying to are the people? What are you trying to are the people? What are you trying to solve? How do we solve problem for these solve? How do we solve problem for these solve? How do we solve problem for these people? Uh and once you get to that people? Uh and once you get to that people? Uh and once you get to that level, at least the way I think that level, at least the way I think that level, at least the way I think that this kind of work or at least the design this kind of work or at least the design this kind of work or at least the design thinking work is sort of best framed. thinking work is sort of best framed. thinking work is sort of best framed. Once you get to that level, you're Once you get to that level, you're Once you get to that level, you're taking into account people's educations

[23:18] taking into account people's educations taking into account people's educations and some extent leave the experiences if and some extent leave the experiences if and some extent leave the experiences if you can. Um we'll talk a bit about you can. Um we'll talk a bit about you can. Um we'll talk a bit about equity issues which I think also equity issues which I think also equity issues which I think also partially points to this. So this partially points to this. So this partially points to this. So this question of like if I'm designing for a question of like if I'm designing for a question of like if I'm designing for a particular set of people, am I leading a particular set of people, am I leading a particular set of people, am I leading a bunch of other people that could benefit bunch of other people that could benefit bunch of other people that could benefit out? I think that's so there's some out? I think that's so there's some out? I think that's so there's some other hard questions here. Um but to other hard questions here. Um but to other hard questions here. Um but to your point, it for sure has an impact. I your point, it for sure has an impact. I your point, it for sure has an impact. I think part of the goal despite the very think part of the goal despite the very think part of the goal despite the very high level discussion here, I think uh high level discussion here, I think uh high level discussion here, I think uh part of what I'll motivate a little bit part of what I'll motivate a little bit part of what I'll motivate a little bit is contextualizing and I think is contextualizing and I think is contextualizing and I think contextualizing forces that you think contextualizing forces that you think

[23:48] contextualizing forces that you think about who your audience is and then about who your audience is and then about who your audience is and then maybe specifically thinking about how do maybe specifically thinking about how do maybe specifically thinking about how do I broaden the scope between making I broaden the scope between making I broaden the scope between making education less of a factor for instance. education less of a factor for instance. education less of a factor for instance. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. I think that's a good point. &gt;&gt; Cool. Anything else? &gt;&gt; Cool. Anything else? &gt;&gt; Cool. Anything else? Good discussion here. So guess all the Good discussion here. So guess all the Good discussion here. So guess all the design people showed up today. That's design people showed up today. That's design people showed up today. That's great. Okay. Um so uh to this uh point, great. Okay. Um so uh to this uh point, great. Okay. Um so uh to this uh point, I think arguably what many of us are I think arguably what many of us are I think arguably what many of us are best at are really pushing on technology

[24:20] best at are really pushing on technology best at are really pushing on technology for technology sake. Like we want to for technology sake. Like we want to for technology sake. Like we want to just get a good tool to we have some just get a good tool to we have some just get a good tool to we have some definition. uh we may or may not be definition. uh we may or may not be definition. uh we may or may not be accounting for users or we have some accounting for users or we have some accounting for users or we have some abstract notion of users. They're not abstract notion of users. They're not abstract notion of users. They're not any kind of real user. Um it's sort of any kind of real user. Um it's sort of any kind of real user. Um it's sort of you know some abstracted metricized user you know some abstracted metricized user you know some abstracted metricized user often like this a number that we're often like this a number that we're often like this a number that we're chasing. Um and so we can call this chasing. Um and so we can call this chasing. Um and so we can call this technologycentric design. um it it can technologycentric design. um it it can technologycentric design. um it it can be useful on its own particularly when be useful on its own particularly when be useful on its own particularly when there's already technology and there's a there's already technology and there's a there's already technology and there's a bunch of sort of well established maybe

[24:51] bunch of sort of well established maybe bunch of sort of well established maybe norms or ways of engaging and so fully norms or ways of engaging and so fully norms or ways of engaging and so fully pushing purely in technology is actually pushing purely in technology is actually pushing purely in technology is actually very reasonable I'd argue a lot of AI very reasonable I'd argue a lot of AI very reasonable I'd argue a lot of AI work is sort of roughly in this space a work is sort of roughly in this space a work is sort of roughly in this space a lot of like uh pure computing work kind lot of like uh pure computing work kind lot of like uh pure computing work kind of like GPU questions that we talked of like GPU questions that we talked of like GPU questions that we talked about earlier are in this space um the about earlier are in this space um the about earlier are in this space um the arguably other side of it is instead of arguably other side of it is instead of arguably other side of it is instead of centering technology, you're centering centering technology, you're centering centering technology, you're centering the user. So you're thinking about what the user. So you're thinking about what the user. So you're thinking about what can I do to make the user solve their can I do to make the user solve their can I do to make the user solve their problem most efficiently. Um and so here

[25:23] problem most efficiently. Um and so here problem most efficiently. Um and so here you're thinking specifically about sort you're thinking specifically about sort you're thinking specifically about sort of the problems, the needs, the focus of of the problems, the needs, the focus of of the problems, the needs, the focus of the stakeholders uh and your design the stakeholders uh and your design the stakeholders uh and your design process is built to make it easy for process is built to make it easy for process is built to make it easy for them to selfize and solve. Um and so uh them to selfize and solve. Um and so uh them to selfize and solve. Um and so uh you know as many of you actually have you know as many of you actually have you know as many of you actually have said this many times but uh as you know said this many times but uh as you know said this many times but uh as you know I think one of the potential I think one of the potential I think one of the potential consequences of the technologycentric consequences of the technologycentric consequences of the technologycentric design is uh everything becomes like a design is uh everything becomes like a design is uh everything becomes like a potential application of whatever tool potential application of whatever tool potential application of whatever tool you're building. Uh because again you're

[25:53] you're building. Uh because again you're you're building. Uh because again you're not designing to solve a problem. You not designing to solve a problem. You not designing to solve a problem. You just have a cool tool or cool technology just have a cool tool or cool technology just have a cool tool or cool technology and you just look for sort of you search and you just look for sort of you search and you just look for sort of you search for actual application where it's for actual application where it's for actual application where it's useful. The point is not that this is useful. The point is not that this is useful. The point is not that this is you know this has no place or it's not you know this has no place or it's not you know this has no place or it's not useful. I think the point here is this useful. I think the point here is this useful. I think the point here is this solving a very different problem than solving a very different problem than solving a very different problem than userentric design which is again focused userentric design which is again focused userentric design which is again focused on making uh the user making it easy for on making uh the user making it easy for on making uh the user making it easy for users to solve problems. users to solve problems. users to solve problems. &gt;&gt; I think it's fair to say like chat for &gt;&gt; I think it's fair to say like chat for &gt;&gt; I think it's fair to say like chat for example like they like they adapted a example like they like they adapted a example like they like they adapted a technology to solve a user problem. So

[26:23] technology to solve a user problem. So technology to solve a user problem. So it's a little bit it's user centered in it's a little bit it's user centered in it's a little bit it's user centered in that sense that sense that sense &gt;&gt; but then because they aren't perfect at &gt;&gt; but then because they aren't perfect at &gt;&gt; but then because they aren't perfect at doing it is when it becomes a little doing it is when it becomes a little doing it is when it becomes a little tech centered and you have to figure out tech centered and you have to figure out tech centered and you have to figure out prompt it. It's kind of both. prompt it. It's kind of both. prompt it. It's kind of both. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I said this a little bit. So &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I said this a little bit. So &gt;&gt; Yeah. So I said this a little bit. So two things. One I said this so one for two things. One I said this so one for two things. One I said this so one for uh uh uh uh uh uh discussion purposes I'm going to be discussion purposes I'm going to be discussion purposes I'm going to be somewhat extreme and say things like somewhat extreme and say things like somewhat extreme and say things like black and white. Uh real the real world black and white. Uh real the real world black and white. Uh real the real world really isn't as you know. There's a really isn't as you know. There's a really isn't as you know. There's a little bit of partially design for real

[26:53] little bit of partially design for real little bit of partially design for real users. There's a little bit of targeting users. There's a little bit of targeting users. There's a little bit of targeting problems for problem sake. I think chat problems for problem sake. I think chat problems for problem sake. I think chat bots are again a mix. I think the bots are again a mix. I think the bots are again a mix. I think the uh I my my sense and a little bit of uh I my my sense and a little bit of uh I my my sense and a little bit of like knowledge is that they were you like knowledge is that they were you like knowledge is that they were you know some of the design decisions made know some of the design decisions made know some of the design decisions made uh actually you know we've discussed uh actually you know we've discussed uh actually you know we've discussed this in this class in in early lectures this in this class in in early lectures this in this class in in early lectures on how for instance if you're focusing on how for instance if you're focusing on how for instance if you're focusing on language models you know in principle on language models you know in principle on language models you know in principle the base model before you've done on you

[27:24] the base model before you've done on you the base model before you've done on you know the supervised fine tuning or RHF know the supervised fine tuning or RHF know the supervised fine tuning or RHF or sort of preference tuning or sort of preference tuning or sort of preference tuning uh quote unquote this is analogy not uh uh quote unquote this is analogy not uh uh quote unquote this is analogy not uh complete but uh our best understanding complete but uh our best understanding complete but uh our best understanding is that it has all the knowledge to do is that it has all the knowledge to do is that it has all the knowledge to do all the things chatbots do but it's just all the things chatbots do but it's just all the things chatbots do but it's just extremely hard to interface with and extremely hard to interface with and extremely hard to interface with and what supervised fine tuning and like what supervised fine tuning and like what supervised fine tuning and like preference tuning does is solve the preference tuning does is solve the preference tuning does is solve the interface problem so it makes it easier interface problem so it makes it easier interface problem so it makes it easier for a user to get the model to solve for a user to get the model to solve for a user to get the model to solve certain tests as opposed to uh you know

[27:54] certain tests as opposed to uh you know certain tests as opposed to uh you know in principle in fact you can do this if in principle in fact you can do this if in principle in fact you can do this if you have a big enough model you And uh you have a big enough model you And uh you have a big enough model you And uh they're big models that you can actually they're big models that you can actually they're big models that you can actually like without doing supervised fine like without doing supervised fine like without doing supervised fine tuning and and prompting actually like tuning and and prompting actually like tuning and and prompting actually like chat with them. Uh they're worse at chat with them. Uh they're worse at chat with them. Uh they're worse at chat, right? Uh so still tricky to chat, right? Uh so still tricky to chat, right? Uh so still tricky to interface with, but arguably like all interface with, but arguably like all interface with, but arguably like all the and again I'm analogizing here the and again I'm analogizing here the and again I'm analogizing here because I can help it because I don't because I can help it because I don't because I can help it because I don't have better language for this, but all have better language for this, but all have better language for this, but all the knowledge to do the thing is the knowledge to do the thing is the knowledge to do the thing is arguably in the model already and uh arguably in the model already and uh arguably in the model already and uh chats are a way to close the interface

[28:24] chats are a way to close the interface chats are a way to close the interface gap. Um so gap. Um so gap. Um so I think in practice it's a little bit of I think in practice it's a little bit of I think in practice it's a little bit of both. When I say both the other side of both. When I say both the other side of both. When I say both the other side of this is I think you know this class is a this is I think you know this class is a this is I think you know this class is a example of uh we started with a user example of uh we started with a user example of uh we started with a user interface problem. We abstracted it out. interface problem. We abstracted it out. interface problem. We abstracted it out. It's still a technical problem and most It's still a technical problem and most It's still a technical problem and most of what we covered in the class so far of what we covered in the class so far of what we covered in the class so far is pure technical right. So you know is pure technical right. So you know is pure technical right. So you know we're still interested in how this maybe we're still interested in how this maybe we're still interested in how this maybe eventually impacts users but we most eventually impacts users but we most eventually impacts users but we most talked about tools. We haven't done that talked about tools. We haven't done that talked about tools. We haven't done that much like specifics on user settings

[28:55] much like specifics on user settings much like specifics on user settings where uh many of these might be where uh many of these might be where uh many of these might be interesting and arguably you know you interesting and arguably you know you interesting and arguably you know you could finish an entire PhD here on could finish an entire PhD here on could finish an entire PhD here on something like chat bots or user something like chat bots or user something like chat bots or user interface and never do a user study uh interface and never do a user study uh interface and never do a user study uh just building better technology in a just building better technology in a just building better technology in a sort of pure technical sense. So that's sort of pure technical sense. So that's sort of pure technical sense. So that's maybe the other side of of uh that maybe the other side of of uh that maybe the other side of of uh that discussion. Good question. Good question. Cool. Okay. So maybe to summarize you Cool. Okay. So maybe to summarize you Cool. Okay. So maybe to summarize you know what is the point. So the idea in

[29:25] know what is the point. So the idea in know what is the point. So the idea in human uh computer interface is again to human uh computer interface is again to human uh computer interface is again to fill this gap between what people want fill this gap between what people want fill this gap between what people want to do and then how they can do this with to do and then how they can do this with to do and then how they can do this with technological tools. So one of the uh technological tools. So one of the uh technological tools. So one of the uh key uh approaches and sort of ways of key uh approaches and sort of ways of key uh approaches and sort of ways of framing how to solve HI problems is what framing how to solve HI problems is what framing how to solve HI problems is what is known as design thinking. Um and so is known as design thinking. Um and so is known as design thinking. Um and so uh this challenges the ways of uh this challenges the ways of uh this challenges the ways of engineers, computer scientists uh focus engineers, computer scientists uh focus engineers, computer scientists uh focus on engaging with problems. So again on engaging with problems. So again on engaging with problems. So again caricature but the first approximation I

[29:56] caricature but the first approximation I caricature but the first approximation I think true honestly based on uh both think true honestly based on uh both think true honestly based on uh both myself and talking with other people myself and talking with other people myself and talking with other people like what what actually excites you the like what what actually excites you the like what what actually excites you the most sometimes is the key teno problem. most sometimes is the key teno problem. most sometimes is the key teno problem. So uh you know you you find some problem So uh you know you you find some problem So uh you know you you find some problem and then your job is I'm just going to and then your job is I'm just going to and then your job is I'm just going to find a solution to this problem. So find a solution to this problem. So find a solution to this problem. So solution and then maybe you want to solution and then maybe you want to solution and then maybe you want to write a few papers and so you think of write a few papers and so you think of write a few papers and so you think of other solutions to the same problem. So other solutions to the same problem. So other solutions to the same problem. So your job is iterating over different your job is iterating over different your job is iterating over different ways of solving the problem. Uh design ways of solving the problem. Uh design ways of solving the problem. Uh design thinking asked to reframe this uh thinking asked to reframe this uh thinking asked to reframe this uh perspective instead of starting with

[30:27] perspective instead of starting with perspective instead of starting with here's a problem maybe somewhat stated here's a problem maybe somewhat stated here's a problem maybe somewhat stated clearly what are solutions for some clearly what are solutions for some clearly what are solutions for some quantification uh some up operization of quantification uh some up operization of quantification uh some up operization of this of this problem. you take the this of this problem. you take the this of this problem. you take the problem and actually go back and ask problem and actually go back and ask problem and actually go back and ask why. And so, you know, why is this a why. And so, you know, why is this a why. And so, you know, why is this a problem that actually needs solving? Um, problem that actually needs solving? Um, problem that actually needs solving? Um, and you try to do this sort of over and you try to do this sort of over and you try to do this sort of over multiple iterations. Um, it's sometimes multiple iterations. Um, it's sometimes multiple iterations. Um, it's sometimes called five W's. The five is not called five W's. The five is not called five W's. The five is not important. Uh, it mostly five meaning

[30:57] important. Uh, it mostly five meaning important. Uh, it mostly five meaning five levels of sort of uh depth in five levels of sort of uh depth in five levels of sort of uh depth in industry. Um, the number five is not industry. Um, the number five is not industry. Um, the number five is not important. The the key thing that's important. The the key thing that's important. The the key thing that's being encouraged here is to think very being encouraged here is to think very being encouraged here is to think very carefully and sort of deeply about what carefully and sort of deeply about what carefully and sort of deeply about what problem you really want to solve but problem you really want to solve but problem you really want to solve but that you can identify it very clearly that you can identify it very clearly that you can identify it very clearly what what is the root cause of whatever what what is the root cause of whatever what what is the root cause of whatever it is that technology is meant to solve it is that technology is meant to solve it is that technology is meant to solve instead of so it's essentially trying to instead of so it's essentially trying to instead of so it's essentially trying to deeply or encourage going beyond surface deeply or encourage going beyond surface deeply or encourage going beyond surface level to deeper introspection and we'll level to deeper introspection and we'll level to deeper introspection and we'll go through some of the tools that that go through some of the tools that that go through some of the tools that that you can use to engage with this

[31:28] you can use to engage with this you can use to engage with this um and so you know just to give some um and so you know just to give some um and so you know just to give some quotes Uh quotes Uh quotes Uh so it can go in multiple ways but one so it can go in multiple ways but one so it can go in multiple ways but one one version from Henry Ford is uh if I one version from Henry Ford is uh if I one version from Henry Ford is uh if I had asked people what they wanted they had asked people what they wanted they had asked people what they wanted they would have said faster horses. This is would have said faster horses. This is would have said faster horses. This is at the time before production cars were at the time before production cars were at the time before production cars were a thing. And you could have imagined the a thing. And you could have imagined the a thing. And you could have imagined the problem people need to get faster from A problem people need to get faster from A problem people need to get faster from A to B. Uh what is the solution? Well to B. Uh what is the solution? Well to B. Uh what is the solution? Well we're using horses right now. Let's make we're using horses right now. Let's make we're using horses right now. Let's make the horses faster somehow. So uh you the horses faster somehow. So uh you the horses faster somehow. So uh you could easily imagine a kind of world

[31:58] could easily imagine a kind of world could easily imagine a kind of world where that was the thing that was where that was the thing that was where that was the thing that was optimized for as a solution. uh instead optimized for as a solution. uh instead optimized for as a solution. uh instead of say uh let's think of some other tool of say uh let's think of some other tool of say uh let's think of some other tool that maybe solve the actual well the that maybe solve the actual well the that maybe solve the actual well the actual problem again uh you can argue actual problem again uh you can argue actual problem again uh you can argue about whether this is the best solution. about whether this is the best solution. about whether this is the best solution. It is a solution. It is a different It is a solution. It is a different It is a solution. It is a different solution arguably better solution than solution arguably better solution than solution arguably better solution than trying for fast versus um other quotes. trying for fast versus um other quotes. trying for fast versus um other quotes. So within that design context framing is So within that design context framing is So within that design context framing is often seen as a key creative step that often seen as a key creative step that often seen as a key creative step that allows the original solution to be allows the original solution to be allows the original solution to be produced. So designers report on the

[32:29] produced. So designers report on the produced. So designers report on the need to get the problem to the problem need to get the problem to the problem need to get the problem to the problem behind a problem uh when presented say behind a problem uh when presented say behind a problem uh when presented say with a problem by a client. So uh with a problem by a client. So uh with a problem by a client. So uh sometimes also called creating a fresh sometimes also called creating a fresh sometimes also called creating a fresh perspective. perspective. perspective. So you can feel free to read up on the So you can feel free to read up on the So you can feel free to read up on the quote and get to details offline. But quote and get to details offline. But quote and get to details offline. But what this what this what this kind of approach leads you to is again kind of approach leads you to is again kind of approach leads you to is again instead of starting with a problem and instead of starting with a problem and instead of starting with a problem and then going directly to like what are the then going directly to like what are the then going directly to like what are the solutions to this problem uh you ask solutions to this problem uh you ask solutions to this problem uh you ask many why questions like why is this a many why questions like why is this a many why questions like why is this a problem? what can I do to uh like what

[32:59] problem? what can I do to uh like what problem? what can I do to uh like what is the root cause of this issue and this is the root cause of this issue and this is the root cause of this issue and this pushes you in a maybe different pushes you in a maybe different pushes you in a maybe different direction. Um and so to operationalize direction. Um and so to operationalize direction. Um and so to operationalize this one of the this one of the this one of the popular methods uh is called double popular methods uh is called double popular methods uh is called double diamond method. So this the first diamond method. So this the first diamond method. So this the first diamond is the sort of problem diamond. diamond is the sort of problem diamond. diamond is the sort of problem diamond. This is where you're asking all the y This is where you're asking all the y This is where you're asking all the y questions and then the solution is questions and then the solution is questions and then the solution is itself another y method. And the the itself another y method. And the the itself another y method. And the the reason it's called a diamond is because reason it's called a diamond is because reason it's called a diamond is because you intentionally start divergence you intentionally start divergence you intentionally start divergence first. So you ask sort of lots of first. So you ask sort of lots of first. So you ask sort of lots of questions with broad scope uh and then

[33:29] questions with broad scope uh and then questions with broad scope uh and then hopefully eventually converge into a hopefully eventually converge into a hopefully eventually converge into a small set of things uh or a thing as small set of things uh or a thing as small set of things uh or a thing as sort of root cause uh in terms of sort of root cause uh in terms of sort of root cause uh in terms of specifying a problem and similarly you specifying a problem and similarly you specifying a problem and similarly you can do the same kind of thing on the can do the same kind of thing on the can do the same kind of thing on the solution side. So divergent all the solution side. So divergent all the solution side. So divergent all the different ways you can engage uh but the different ways you can engage uh but the different ways you can engage uh but the better you understand the key root cause better you understand the key root cause better you understand the key root cause and then also the affordances of the and then also the affordances of the and then also the affordances of the users and their context the better you users and their context the better you users and their context the better you can identify a good solution uh for that can identify a good solution uh for that can identify a good solution uh for that context. context. context. So in a bit more detail uh the sort of So in a bit more detail uh the sort of So in a bit more detail uh the sort of divergent part of the finding a problem

[33:59] divergent part of the finding a problem divergent part of the finding a problem is sometimes called discovery. So things is sometimes called discovery. So things is sometimes called discovery. So things like research um and then you define like research um and then you define like research um and then you define specifically root causes. So sometimes specifically root causes. So sometimes specifically root causes. So sometimes called synthesis combining things called synthesis combining things called synthesis combining things together. And then on the solution side together. And then on the solution side together. And then on the solution side you have this ideation step where you're you have this ideation step where you're you have this ideation step where you're developing a bunch of different ways of developing a bunch of different ways of developing a bunch of different ways of thinking about potential solutions to thinking about potential solutions to thinking about potential solutions to the problem. then you implement or the problem. then you implement or the problem. then you implement or deliver the final solution typically deliver the final solution typically deliver the final solution typically will lead you to one thing as maybe uh will lead you to one thing as maybe uh will lead you to one thing as maybe uh your best sort of potential solution to your best sort of potential solution to your best sort of potential solution to this issue. this issue. this issue. So for this first step again discovery

[34:30] So for this first step again discovery So for this first step again discovery step so lots of tooling out there and step so lots of tooling out there and step so lots of tooling out there and many of our colleagues do this uh I many of our colleagues do this uh I many of our colleagues do this uh I think uh again across all of science think uh again across all of science think uh again across all of science across all of uh sort of work that across all of uh sort of work that across all of uh sort of work that engages with people but within computing engages with people but within computing engages with people but within computing I think the hi areas are the ones that I think the hi areas are the ones that I think the hi areas are the ones that do this the most education I'm sure does do this the most education I'm sure does do this the most education I'm sure does a ton of this as well um so uh you know a ton of this as well um so uh you know a ton of this as well um so uh you know this could include things like field this could include things like field this could include things like field studies interviewing people survey PH uh studies interviewing people survey PH uh studies interviewing people survey PH uh you try to understand environmental

[35:00] you try to understand environmental you try to understand environmental factors, context, different needs, factors, context, different needs, factors, context, different needs, things like education of people as you things like education of people as you things like education of people as you talked about earlier, market research, talked about earlier, market research, talked about earlier, market research, what are different stakeholders, all what are different stakeholders, all what are different stakeholders, all these kinds of things to get a sense of these kinds of things to get a sense of these kinds of things to get a sense of uh to get a better sense of the why uh to get a better sense of the why uh to get a better sense of the why underlying uh the issue. Uh and then underlying uh the issue. Uh and then underlying uh the issue. Uh and then once you have a good range good once you have a good range good once you have a good range good understanding of the broad scope, then understanding of the broad scope, then understanding of the broad scope, then you try to narrow down to uh the root you try to narrow down to uh the root you try to narrow down to uh the root cause of the particular issue. So you cause of the particular issue. So you cause of the particular issue. So you try to uh some of the techniques that try to uh some of the techniques that try to uh some of the techniques that are useful include things like are useful include things like are useful include things like participator design. So you talk to a participator design. So you talk to a participator design. So you talk to a bunch of stakeholders maybe jointly

[35:30] bunch of stakeholders maybe jointly bunch of stakeholders maybe jointly together uh to get a sense uh or try to together uh to get a sense uh or try to together uh to get a sense uh or try to see if there's a way to get to a see if there's a way to get to a see if there's a way to get to a consensus of uh the actual issue and consensus of uh the actual issue and consensus of uh the actual issue and maybe the root cause of a particular maybe the root cause of a particular maybe the root cause of a particular problem. Um you could use an analytical problem. Um you could use an analytical problem. Um you could use an analytical approaches. So learn about relationships approaches. So learn about relationships approaches. So learn about relationships across the different tasks. Um or uh you across the different tasks. Um or uh you across the different tasks. Um or uh you know people give you lots of causes. you know people give you lots of causes. you know people give you lots of causes. you think about things way ways that can be think about things way ways that can be think about things way ways that can be grouped together logically. So they grouped together logically. So they grouped together logically. So they actually describing the same thing but actually describing the same thing but actually describing the same thing but in different ways. Um things like in different ways. Um things like in different ways. Um things like affinity diagrams similarly to help you

[36:00] affinity diagrams similarly to help you affinity diagrams similarly to help you think about groupings. And again the think about groupings. And again the think about groupings. And again the hope at the end of this step is that hope at the end of this step is that hope at the end of this step is that you've identified a specific or at least you've identified a specific or at least you've identified a specific or at least a small set of root causes uh that are a small set of root causes uh that are a small set of root causes uh that are at a for analogy sake at a sort of at a for analogy sake at a sort of at a for analogy sake at a sort of deeper level than the original deeper level than the original deeper level than the original specification of the problem which can specification of the problem which can specification of the problem which can be sort of vague and uh not again you be sort of vague and uh not again you be sort of vague and uh not again you know the horse versus car analogy from know the horse versus car analogy from know the horse versus car analogy from earlier earlier earlier on the solution side uh while you're on the solution side uh while you're on the solution side uh while you're developing. developing. developing. So you could uh some of the tools that So you could uh some of the tools that So you could uh some of the tools that are used in those areas include things

[36:30] are used in those areas include things are used in those areas include things like storytelling. Uh so you construct like storytelling. Uh so you construct like storytelling. Uh so you construct situations where the user is in a situations where the user is in a situations where the user is in a specific context and you think through specific context and you think through specific context and you think through different ways that different solutions different ways that different solutions different ways that different solutions might engage with the user in those might engage with the user in those might engage with the user in those settings. Uh prototyping is often settings. Uh prototyping is often settings. Uh prototyping is often useful. So build quick and dirty sort of useful. So build quick and dirty sort of useful. So build quick and dirty sort of solutions quickly. Get a sense of like solutions quickly. Get a sense of like solutions quickly. Get a sense of like know to what extent does this actual know to what extent does this actual know to what extent does this actual solution meet the need as stated uh in solution meet the need as stated uh in solution meet the need as stated uh in context for the users that you're context for the users that you're context for the users that you're evaluating. Um and eventually you'd try evaluating. Um and eventually you'd try evaluating. Um and eventually you'd try to get to some minimal viable minimal to get to some minimal viable minimal to get to some minimal viable minimal minimum viable product. So something as

[37:01] minimum viable product. So something as minimum viable product. So something as a sort of synthesis final solution uh a sort of synthesis final solution uh a sort of synthesis final solution uh for this process that that hopefully for this process that that hopefully for this process that that hopefully meets the need at the root cause level. meets the need at the root cause level. meets the need at the root cause level. So as mentioned again you know this So as mentioned again you know this So as mentioned again you know this discover the problem define a problem discover the problem define a problem discover the problem define a problem develop the solution and then refine or develop the solution and then refine or develop the solution and then refine or deliver the solution. Um it's worth deliver the solution. Um it's worth deliver the solution. Um it's worth saying stating that you know while this saying stating that you know while this saying stating that you know while this is a useful uh pneumonic or sort of is a useful uh pneumonic or sort of is a useful uh pneumonic or sort of conceptual framework for thinking about conceptual framework for thinking about conceptual framework for thinking about solving problems in practice for many solving problems in practice for many solving problems in practice for many interesting things and both in terms of

[37:31] interesting things and both in terms of interesting things and both in terms of research but often in terms of things research but often in terms of things research but often in terms of things like products it's not a one-time like products it's not a one-time like products it's not a one-time process. So often it's iterative um process. So often it's iterative um process. So often it's iterative um where you observe, you generate ideas, where you observe, you generate ideas, where you observe, you generate ideas, understand root causes, prototype understand root causes, prototype understand root causes, prototype solutions, test them out and sort of solutions, test them out and sort of solutions, test them out and sort of that tells you uh you deploy the that tells you uh you deploy the that tells you uh you deploy the solution, you figure out what you're solution, you figure out what you're solution, you figure out what you're missing, observe again. Uh and so you missing, observe again. Uh and so you missing, observe again. Uh and so you can imagine as a sort of iterative can imagine as a sort of iterative can imagine as a sort of iterative solution. And so one uh conceptual way solution. And so one uh conceptual way solution. And so one uh conceptual way to think about this is uh instead of as

[38:01] to think about this is uh instead of as to think about this is uh instead of as a cycle you can think about as expanding a cycle you can think about as expanding a cycle you can think about as expanding loop because again over time you're loop because again over time you're loop because again over time you're expanding the ways that hopefully you're expanding the ways that hopefully you're expanding the ways that hopefully you're better engaging with the problem by uh better engaging with the problem by uh better engaging with the problem by uh if you like along the time axis anyway if you like along the time axis anyway if you like along the time axis anyway spiraling out uh to think about spiraling out uh to think about spiraling out uh to think about solutions to real world issues. Okay. So solutions to real world issues. Okay. So solutions to real world issues. Okay. So this is at the conceptual end uh for us this is at the conceptual end uh for us this is at the conceptual end uh for us and for this at least closest to this and for this at least closest to this and for this at least closest to this class is what things like this mean when class is what things like this mean when class is what things like this mean when we're interested in human AI we're interested in human AI we're interested in human AI interaction. Uh so more and more this is interaction. Uh so more and more this is interaction. Uh so more and more this is being formalized as a field sort of uh

[38:33] being formalized as a field sort of uh being formalized as a field sort of uh actually actually actually at different levels of abstraction at different levels of abstraction at different levels of abstraction people have started to name this. So people have started to name this. So people have started to name this. So there's that level of human AI there's that level of human AI there's that level of human AI interaction there's a level of human LLM interaction there's a level of human LLM interaction there's a level of human LLM interaction human BLM interaction. So interaction human BLM interaction. So interaction human BLM interaction. So people who think of their work as sort people who think of their work as sort people who think of their work as sort of narrowly within some of these scopes of narrowly within some of these scopes of narrowly within some of these scopes uh and the kinds of possible solutions uh and the kinds of possible solutions uh and the kinds of possible solutions that one can solve. I guess it's that one can solve. I guess it's that one can solve. I guess it's partially technologist in the sense that partially technologist in the sense that partially technologist in the sense that you're anchoring on a particular you're anchoring on a particular you're anchoring on a particular technology type as opposed to let's just technology type as opposed to let's just technology type as opposed to let's just solve the problem. Uh but it it's a solve the problem. Uh but it it's a solve the problem. Uh but it it's a useful way maybe of organizing uh a set

[39:03] useful way maybe of organizing uh a set useful way maybe of organizing uh a set of skills and a set of tools and the of skills and a set of tools and the of skills and a set of tools and the different ways that one could solve different ways that one could solve different ways that one could solve useful problems with those skill uh useful problems with those skill uh useful problems with those skill uh tools or skills. So um one way to think tools or skills. So um one way to think tools or skills. So um one way to think about this is an area or a field a sub about this is an area or a field a sub about this is an area or a field a sub field maybe where humans and AIs field maybe where humans and AIs field maybe where humans and AIs interact. interact. interact. Um the humans include AI researchers, Um the humans include AI researchers, Um the humans include AI researchers, model developers, domain experts but model developers, domain experts but model developers, domain experts but also end users. And so uh each one of also end users. And so uh each one of also end users. And so uh each one of these will have different needs, these will have different needs, these will have different needs, different goals, different again context different goals, different again context different goals, different again context matters a ton uh and one will be matters a ton uh and one will be matters a ton uh and one will be thinking about uh how to build solutions

[39:33] thinking about uh how to build solutions thinking about uh how to build solutions for each one of these potential end for each one of these potential end for each one of these potential end users. users. users. And then the AIS uh here we're focusing And then the AIS uh here we're focusing And then the AIS uh here we're focusing on things tied to well lots of different on things tied to well lots of different on things tied to well lots of different context but I already talked about lang context but I already talked about lang context but I already talked about lang large language models but there other large language models but there other large language models but there other kinds of tools um dialogue audio systems kinds of tools um dialogue audio systems kinds of tools um dialogue audio systems recommener systems autonomous driving recommener systems autonomous driving recommener systems autonomous driving build you know pick your technology area build you know pick your technology area build you know pick your technology area or in this case AI area uh and you can or in this case AI area uh and you can or in this case AI area uh and you can think about you know ways in which there think about you know ways in which there think about you know ways in which there sort of new kinds of problems that

[40:04] sort of new kinds of problems that sort of new kinds of problems that combine different humans with different combine different humans with different combine different humans with different technological tools tools for solving technological tools tools for solving technological tools tools for solving some different real world problems. Um some different real world problems. Um some different real world problems. Um and then interaction part is maybe and then interaction part is maybe and then interaction part is maybe the key new thing here is thinking about the key new thing here is thinking about the key new thing here is thinking about different ways of how that interaction different ways of how that interaction different ways of how that interaction might go. So could be collaborative, it might go. So could be collaborative, it might go. So could be collaborative, it could be assistive. AI is trying to could be assistive. AI is trying to could be assistive. AI is trying to assist humans solve something. There's assist humans solve something. There's assist humans solve something. There's the understanding maybe to your earlier the understanding maybe to your earlier the understanding maybe to your earlier point. Uh humans try to understand AI point. Uh humans try to understand AI point. Uh humans try to understand AI tools. So you can imagine helping tools. So you can imagine helping tools. So you can imagine helping various ways they can think about what various ways they can think about what various ways they can think about what the interaction might be. And so uh at a

[40:34] the interaction might be. And so uh at a the interaction might be. And so uh at a high level the field tries to bridge set high level the field tries to bridge set high level the field tries to bridge set itself up as again thinking through uh itself up as again thinking through uh itself up as again thinking through uh different human stakeholders different different human stakeholders different different human stakeholders different potential AI tools or technologies and potential AI tools or technologies and potential AI tools or technologies and then think about different interaction then think about different interaction then think about different interaction mechanisms and ways that you could uh mechanisms and ways that you could uh mechanisms and ways that you could uh bridge between these to solve real bridge between these to solve real bridge between these to solve real problems. problems. problems. Okay. So how do you solve this? This is Okay. So how do you solve this? This is Okay. So how do you solve this? This is in some ways the key bits. Uh so the in some ways the key bits. Uh so the in some ways the key bits. Uh so the first step typically is you know figure first step typically is you know figure first step typically is you know figure out who the human is that you're trying out who the human is that you're trying out who the human is that you're trying to engage with. uh could be you could be

[41:05] to engage with. uh could be you could be to engage with. uh could be you could be typically the researcher will have typically the researcher will have typically the researcher will have agency to at least in the research agency to at least in the research agency to at least in the research setting of course in a product setting setting of course in a product setting setting of course in a product setting it's different maybe the product defines it's different maybe the product defines it's different maybe the product defines who the stakeholders are research you who the stakeholders are research you who the stakeholders are research you often have some some agency there uh and often have some some agency there uh and often have some some agency there uh and then also the AI okay language model then also the AI okay language model then also the AI okay language model whatever else uh which typically already whatever else uh which typically already whatever else uh which typically already exists but need some improvements to exists but need some improvements to exists but need some improvements to make it easier to bridge this interface make it easier to bridge this interface make it easier to bridge this interface gap um and so some of the key steps are gap um and so some of the key steps are gap um and so some of the key steps are things first the design step you know things first the design step you know things first the design step you know why should they interacts uh what needs

[41:35] why should they interacts uh what needs why should they interacts uh what needs to be done to make it happen, what to be done to make it happen, what to be done to make it happen, what instances, what context, things like instances, what context, things like instances, what context, things like that. Um enabling the interaction. So, that. Um enabling the interaction. So, that. Um enabling the interaction. So, how can we enable this sort of depending how can we enable this sort of depending how can we enable this sort of depending on the setting and context, what can be on the setting and context, what can be on the setting and context, what can be brought to bear to make this uh brought to bear to make this uh brought to bear to make this uh interaction easier? Um, interaction easier? Um, interaction easier? Um, I'd argue that I'd argue that I'd argue that uh most of the work in this middle is uh most of the work in this middle is uh most of the work in this middle is about tooling and most of what we've about tooling and most of what we've about tooling and most of what we've covered in this class uh are in some covered in this class uh are in some covered in this class uh are in some ways you can think of as tools that you

[42:06] ways you can think of as tools that you ways you can think of as tools that you can bring to bear to make the can bring to bear to make the can bring to bear to make the interaction probably easier. So this interaction probably easier. So this interaction probably easier. So this enabling the interaction question. So enabling the interaction question. So enabling the interaction question. So things like can I better understand um things like can I better understand um things like can I better understand um or can I ease the burden of the or can I ease the burden of the or can I ease the burden of the interaction by personalization by uh interaction by personalization by uh interaction by personalization by uh getting pair wise preferences from getting pair wise preferences from getting pair wise preferences from people. We mostly covered pair wise people. We mostly covered pair wise people. We mostly covered pair wise preferences but we'll cover here briefly preferences but we'll cover here briefly preferences but we'll cover here briefly other kinds of ways of getting um like other kinds of ways of getting um like other kinds of ways of getting um like choice or other notions of preference choice or other notions of preference choice or other notions of preference from people. um all is thought of as from people. um all is thought of as from people. um all is thought of as technical tools that enable this technical tools that enable this technical tools that enable this interaction between AIS and humans and

[42:39] interaction between AIS and humans and interaction between AIS and humans and AIS broadly defined. AIS broadly defined. AIS broadly defined. Um and then there's evaluation step Um and then there's evaluation step Um and then there's evaluation step which we haven't talked a lot about but which we haven't talked a lot about but which we haven't talked a lot about but I think is super important. uh so we'll I think is super important. uh so we'll I think is super important. uh so we'll spend a little bit of time uh today spend a little bit of time uh today spend a little bit of time uh today talking about some of the ways talking about some of the ways talking about some of the ways particularly when I contextualize what particularly when I contextualize what particularly when I contextualize what we've been covering in the broader we've been covering in the broader we've been covering in the broader scheme of uh simplifying the engagement scheme of uh simplifying the engagement scheme of uh simplifying the engagement between humans for particular problem between humans for particular problem between humans for particular problem settings what evaluations could look settings what evaluations could look settings what evaluations could look like different ways of thinking about like different ways of thinking about like different ways of thinking about evaluation tools um I will say no this

[43:09] evaluation tools um I will say no this evaluation tools um I will say no this is is is uh we're covering this in an hour and uh we're covering this in an hour and uh we're covering this in an hour and change like almost everything we've change like almost everything we've change like almost everything we've covered in the class honestly but yet covered in the class honestly but yet covered in the class honestly but yet again I'll say what if I say almost again I'll say what if I say almost again I'll say what if I say almost every class. Uh this is this material every class. Uh this is this material every class. Uh this is this material itself is part of like a three or four itself is part of like a three or four itself is part of like a three or four hour tutorial. This is part of entire hour tutorial. This is part of entire hour tutorial. This is part of entire disciplines to spend people who build disciplines to spend people who build disciplines to spend people who build their careers around or more and more so their careers around or more and more so their careers around or more and more so anyway. LMS are newish but still there anyway. LMS are newish but still there anyway. LMS are newish but still there people whose PhDs are about this. So people whose PhDs are about this. So people whose PhDs are about this. So there's a lot of depth potentially here. there's a lot of depth potentially here. there's a lot of depth potentially here. Uh so if you're interested I'm happy to

[43:39] Uh so if you're interested I'm happy to Uh so if you're interested I'm happy to give references. I have a little bit of give references. I have a little bit of give references. I have a little bit of a pen here. The references sprinkled a pen here. The references sprinkled a pen here. The references sprinkled throughout but there's a lot of depth throughout but there's a lot of depth throughout but there's a lot of depth that one can go into. uh but I'll try to that one can go into. uh but I'll try to that one can go into. uh but I'll try to give a sort of enough of the give a sort of enough of the give a sort of enough of the stakes of the area so that you can find stakes of the area so that you can find stakes of the area so that you can find more material if you're interested. more material if you're interested. more material if you're interested. Okay. So first on the design. So here I'll see a little bit more about So here I'll see a little bit more about our favorite tooling which is prompt our favorite tooling which is prompt our favorite tooling which is prompt engineering. Um so from a human or yeah engineering. Um so from a human or yeah engineering. Um so from a human or yeah human computer interface tool it's it's

[44:11] human computer interface tool it's it's human computer interface tool it's it's interesting uh and has been studied and interesting uh and has been studied and interesting uh and has been studied and thought of as uh quite challenging thought of as uh quite challenging thought of as uh quite challenging actually as a way to interface with uh actually as a way to interface with uh actually as a way to interface with uh AI technology. Um you know arguably what AI technology. Um you know arguably what AI technology. Um you know arguably what it's meant to do is or traditionally it's meant to do is or traditionally it's meant to do is or traditionally what user interface designs are meant to what user interface designs are meant to what user interface designs are meant to do is to go from some high uncertainty do is to go from some high uncertainty do is to go from some high uncertainty problem solving context uh to make it problem solving context uh to make it problem solving context uh to make it easy such that uh the sort of clarity easy such that uh the sort of clarity easy such that uh the sort of clarity and focus very clear what the

[44:41] and focus very clear what the and focus very clear what the interaction should be to solve a interaction should be to solve a interaction should be to solve a particular task. um you know prompting particular task. um you know prompting particular task. um you know prompting as cartooned here and it's a cool paper as cartooned here and it's a cool paper as cartooned here and it's a cool paper with the figure that you can look in with the figure that you can look in with the figure that you can look in more detail but you start with high more detail but you start with high more detail but you start with high uncertainty maybe you reduce the uncertainty maybe you reduce the uncertainty maybe you reduce the uncertainty a little bit by trying uh uncertainty a little bit by trying uh uncertainty a little bit by trying uh some prompting strategies we've talked some prompting strategies we've talked some prompting strategies we've talked about uh you know people talk to each about uh you know people talk to each about uh you know people talk to each other you sort of come up with best other you sort of come up with best other you sort of come up with best practices but it's still a little bit practices but it's still a little bit practices but it's still a little bit brittle uncertainty still exists um and brittle uncertainty still exists um and brittle uncertainty still exists um and so you try different tools and then you

[45:11] so you try different tools and then you so you try different tools and then you know new things happen maybe in the know new things happen maybe in the know new things happen maybe in the tooling tooling tooling or the context changes a little bit some or the context changes a little bit some or the context changes a little bit some of the brittleleness and so you have of the brittleleness and so you have of the brittleleness and so you have high uncertainty again actually um so high uncertainty again actually um so high uncertainty again actually um so you know some problems that you thought you know some problems that you thought you know some problems that you thought were fixed come back say uh I don't know were fixed come back say uh I don't know were fixed come back say uh I don't know open AAI changes the version number open AAI changes the version number open AAI changes the version number under the hood if you're using this for under the hood if you're using this for under the hood if you're using this for your tooling uh I'm assuming the nodding your tooling uh I'm assuming the nodding your tooling uh I'm assuming the nodding is people's lived experience I certainly is people's lived experience I certainly is people's lived experience I certainly have had that where we built something have had that where we built something have had that where we built something built on I don't know some version of built on I don't know some version of built on I don't know some version of checkp and something changed under the checkp and something changed under the checkp and something changed under the hood and you know your solution and

[45:43] hood and you know your solution and hood and you know your solution and completely breaks. But even this this completely breaks. But even this this completely breaks. But even this this happens easily even with like open happens easily even with like open happens easily even with like open source tooling because again technology source tooling because again technology source tooling because again technology is evolving all the time. Um so you know is evolving all the time. Um so you know is evolving all the time. Um so you know all kinds of unknown unknown problems all kinds of unknown unknown problems all kinds of unknown unknown problems new issues show up. Um and it's kind of new issues show up. Um and it's kind of new issues show up. Um and it's kind of hard to get to the point where and hard to get to the point where and hard to get to the point where and arguably we haven't solved this in a arguably we haven't solved this in a arguably we haven't solved this in a general contextfree sense of getting to general contextfree sense of getting to general contextfree sense of getting to a point where um we'll get to sort of a point where um we'll get to sort of a point where um we'll get to sort of ease of interface and clarity in the way ease of interface and clarity in the way ease of interface and clarity in the way that you would argue that you often can that you would argue that you often can that you would argue that you often can get to in a standard UX setting. get to in a standard UX setting. get to in a standard UX setting. So uh

[46:15] So uh So uh some of the ways or at least some of the some of the ways or at least some of the some of the ways or at least some of the description is that the language description is that the language description is that the language interface while it's freeing and makes interface while it's freeing and makes interface while it's freeing and makes it easy for people to in principle to it easy for people to in principle to it easy for people to in principle to our earlier comments about chatting in our earlier comments about chatting in our earlier comments about chatting in principle makes it easier for people to principle makes it easier for people to principle makes it easier for people to interface with AI technologies uh from a interface with AI technologies uh from a interface with AI technologies uh from a let's solve real world problems point of let's solve real world problems point of let's solve real world problems point of view arguably causes lots of new view arguably causes lots of new view arguably causes lots of new challenges because it makes it hard to challenges because it makes it hard to challenges because it makes it hard to get to the sort of UX get to the sort of UX get to the sort of UX uh outcome that one typically tries to uh outcome that one typically tries to uh outcome that one typically tries to get to which is you know there's a clear get to which is you know there's a clear get to which is you know there's a clear interface approach that has low

[46:47] interface approach that has low interface approach that has low uncertainty and high reliability. Uh so uncertainty and high reliability. Uh so uncertainty and high reliability. Uh so one quote that you some of you might one quote that you some of you might one quote that you some of you might like is that prompt engineers exist to like is that prompt engineers exist to like is that prompt engineers exist to tickle chatpt in the right spot so that tickle chatpt in the right spot so that tickle chatpt in the right spot so that it coughs up the answers. I think many it coughs up the answers. I think many it coughs up the answers. I think many of you might agree with this as at least of you might agree with this as at least of you might agree with this as at least some of the ways that you can think some of the ways that you can think some of the ways that you can think about front engineering. Uh so you think about front engineering. Uh so you think about front engineering. Uh so you think about adding references uh saying things about adding references uh saying things about adding references uh saying things really nicely playing with the framing. really nicely playing with the framing. really nicely playing with the framing. how much these other like strategies how much these other like strategies how much these other like strategies that people try to use to get language that people try to use to get language that people try to use to get language models to solve problems as they would models to solve problems as they would models to solve problems as they would like them to. Um, and so in real

[47:18] like them to. Um, and so in real like them to. Um, and so in real settings, you often need to engineer settings, you often need to engineer settings, you often need to engineer this uh this uh this uh lots of engineering in the way that you lots of engineering in the way that you lots of engineering in the way that you frame say a prompt enough that it frame say a prompt enough that it frame say a prompt enough that it actually starts to look a little bit actually starts to look a little bit actually starts to look a little bit like command line languages where like command line languages where like command line languages where essentially you need a format that essentially you need a format that essentially you need a format that matches some templates that have any matches some templates that have any matches some templates that have any luck I guess in anything that's luck I guess in anything that's luck I guess in anything that's non-trivial for prompting. So again many non-trivial for prompting. So again many non-trivial for prompting. So again many successful implementations of prompting successful implementations of prompting successful implementations of prompting and language models actually you know in and language models actually you know in and language models actually you know in principle should be natural language in principle should be natural language in principle should be natural language in practice are sort of highly stylized

[47:49] practice are sort of highly stylized practice are sort of highly stylized specialized things because this is what specialized things because this is what specialized things because this is what the thing you need for the tool to the thing you need for the tool to the thing you need for the tool to actually solve the problem solve at actually solve the problem solve at actually solve the problem solve at least to some level of reliability often least to some level of reliability often least to some level of reliability often again not perfect. again not perfect. again not perfect. Um okay so one way to engage with this Um okay so one way to engage with this Um okay so one way to engage with this and I'll give one example from uh and I'll give one example from uh and I'll give one example from uh colleagues that wrote this talk is think colleagues that wrote this talk is think colleagues that wrote this talk is think about maybe hybrid uh user interfaces about maybe hybrid uh user interfaces about maybe hybrid uh user interfaces and ways that maybe adding guies in the and ways that maybe adding guies in the and ways that maybe adding guies in the middle of prompts can make uh sometimes middle of prompts can make uh sometimes middle of prompts can make uh sometimes improve usability. So I'll give an improve usability. So I'll give an improve usability. So I'll give an example in a sort of visual language

[48:20] example in a sort of visual language example in a sort of visual language model kind of setting. So trying to model kind of setting. So trying to model kind of setting. So trying to prompt things so that you can uh say prompt things so that you can uh say prompt things so that you can uh say better create images that match a better create images that match a better create images that match a certain design goal. certain design goal. certain design goal. Okay. Um, so in this work, this is a Okay. Um, so in this work, this is a Okay. Um, so in this work, this is a reference at the bottom called prompt reference at the bottom called prompt reference at the bottom called prompt charm. Uh, the first thing was research. charm. Uh, the first thing was research. charm. Uh, the first thing was research. So this part of the design example that So this part of the design example that So this part of the design example that I talked about to better identify what I talked about to better identify what I talked about to better identify what the gaps are, what the root causes of the gaps are, what the root causes of the gaps are, what the root causes of the issues are. Um, at the end of their the issues are. Um, at the end of their the issues are. Um, at the end of their research work, they found from user research work, they found from user research work, they found from user studies that uh there's significant

[48:50] studies that uh there's significant studies that uh there's significant conceptual gaps when a novice user conceptual gaps when a novice user conceptual gaps when a novice user writes prompts for image creation. In writes prompts for image creation. In writes prompts for image creation. In many cha in many cases, users have a many cha in many cases, users have a many cha in many cases, users have a clear image or style in mind, but they clear image or style in mind, but they clear image or style in mind, but they have a lot of trouble articulating it in have a lot of trouble articulating it in have a lot of trouble articulating it in a prompt in the right way so that the a prompt in the right way so that the a prompt in the right way so that the model does what it would like it to do. model does what it would like it to do. model does what it would like it to do. And so to solve this problem, this paper And so to solve this problem, this paper And so to solve this problem, this paper uh went through a few steps uh and identified five major user needs uh and identified five major user needs and then a few steps to address the and then a few steps to address the and then a few steps to address the problem. Um so first being automatically

[49:22] problem. Um so first being automatically problem. Um so first being automatically recommending and revising text prompts. recommending and revising text prompts. recommending and revising text prompts. Uh balancing automation and user Uh balancing automation and user Uh balancing automation and user control. Various kinds of exploration to control. Various kinds of exploration to control. Various kinds of exploration to make it easier for users to explore. Uh make it easier for users to explore. Uh make it easier for users to explore. Uh different ways of framing prompts or at different ways of framing prompts or at different ways of framing prompts or at least engaging with the AI model. Um least engaging with the AI model. Um least engaging with the AI model. Um various kinds of version control so that various kinds of version control so that various kinds of version control so that users can go back and so see if users can go back and so see if users can go back and so see if something broke it can go back to what something broke it can go back to what something broke it can go back to what worked earlier. So making that easy. um worked earlier. So making that easy. um worked earlier. So making that easy. um try and provide explanations for try and provide explanations for try and provide explanations for generated content so that it's maybe generated content so that it's maybe generated content so that it's maybe easier to see what might have worked and easier to see what might have worked and easier to see what might have worked and what um what what can be done make it

[49:54] what um what what can be done make it what um what what can be done make it easier in the future. Um so based on easier in the future. Um so based on easier in the future. Um so based on this research they developed a new this research they developed a new this research they developed a new design. Uh the first step again was this design. Uh the first step again was this design. Uh the first step again was this or one of the first things that they or one of the first things that they or one of the first things that they tried was automatic revision of prompts. tried was automatic revision of prompts. tried was automatic revision of prompts. Um so many of you know this is now Um so many of you know this is now Um so many of you know this is now standard actually in many commercial standard actually in many commercial standard actually in many commercial language models. they don't show this to language models. they don't show this to language models. they don't show this to you is maybe a a separate conversation you is maybe a a separate conversation you is maybe a a separate conversation but almost always or at least in models but almost always or at least in models but almost always or at least in models that prompt chat bots to create images. that prompt chat bots to create images. that prompt chat bots to create images. I want to I don't have a percentage I want to I don't have a percentage I want to I don't have a percentage because I don't know the IP of the

[50:25] because I don't know the IP of the because I don't know the IP of the companies but I know specific examples companies but I know specific examples companies but I know specific examples many of the language models have many of the language models have many of the language models have something in the middle that rewrites something in the middle that rewrites something in the middle that rewrites your prompts in a way that is more your prompts in a way that is more your prompts in a way that is more likely to work. This is like the likely to work. This is like the likely to work. This is like the engineering that gets the BLM to get the engineering that gets the BLM to get the engineering that gets the BLM to get the right solutions. Here they exposed it to right solutions. Here they exposed it to right solutions. Here they exposed it to the users. Uh you know so you say hey I the users. Uh you know so you say hey I the users. Uh you know so you say hey I want a painting of a wolf sitting next want a painting of a wolf sitting next want a painting of a wolf sitting next to a human child in front of the moon. to a human child in front of the moon. to a human child in front of the moon. Uh this might be expanded to say give a Uh this might be expanded to say give a Uh this might be expanded to say give a specific style. So a particular kind of specific style. So a particular kind of specific style. So a particular kind of artist in their style. Um and maybe artist in their style. Um and maybe artist in their style. Um and maybe something about the this is trending on

[50:57] something about the this is trending on something about the this is trending on art station. So particular platform like art station. So particular platform like art station. So particular platform like something that looks like something that something that looks like something that something that looks like something that uh they imagine a user might want. Uh uh they imagine a user might want. Uh uh they imagine a user might want. Uh this is also ability for the user to this is also ability for the user to this is also ability for the user to change the term. So there's a rewrite change the term. So there's a rewrite change the term. So there's a rewrite but it's exposed. If the user thinks but it's exposed. If the user thinks but it's exposed. If the user thinks that this doesn't identify what they that this doesn't identify what they that this doesn't identify what they want, uh it's made easy to revise this want, uh it's made easy to revise this want, uh it's made easy to revise this to sort of change the prompt in a way to sort of change the prompt in a way to sort of change the prompt in a way that better matches what they need. Um that better matches what they need. Um that better matches what they need. Um the guey also includes easy ways of the guey also includes easy ways of the guey also includes easy ways of finding similar items. So you know if finding similar items. So you know if finding similar items. So you know if you don't know your artist super well or

[51:28] you don't know your artist super well or you don't know your artist super well or you can't remember a particular artist you can't remember a particular artist you can't remember a particular artist name, maybe give you suggestions for name, maybe give you suggestions for name, maybe give you suggestions for different kind of artists or different different kind of artists or different different kind of artists or different kinds of styling. Uh and hopefully some kinds of styling. Uh and hopefully some kinds of styling. Uh and hopefully some of these word choices match your mental of these word choices match your mental of these word choices match your mental model of what you'd like. Um they also model of what you'd like. Um they also model of what you'd like. Um they also enable weighing of terms which is kind enable weighing of terms which is kind enable weighing of terms which is kind of cool. So um again technology allows of cool. So um again technology allows of cool. So um again technology allows this to sort of upweight or downweight this to sort of upweight or downweight this to sort of upweight or downweight various aspects of the prompt. Um and various aspects of the prompt. Um and various aspects of the prompt. Um and they expose this again to the user. So they expose this again to the user. So they expose this again to the user. So these are ones like emphasize more or these are ones like emphasize more or these are ones like emphasize more or less particular terms that you have the less particular terms that you have the less particular terms that you have the ability to click on a word or phrase or

[51:59] ability to click on a word or phrase or ability to click on a word or phrase or in this case the style and an up or down in this case the style and an up or down in this case the style and an up or down weight how much that is uh is a weight how much that is uh is a weight how much that is uh is a important part of the provided solution. important part of the provided solution. important part of the provided solution. Okay. Uh next is support exploration. Okay. Uh next is support exploration. Okay. Uh next is support exploration. So uh make it easy to play with again So uh make it easy to play with again So uh make it easy to play with again the sort of I already talked about the the sort of I already talked about the the sort of I already talked about the rewriting and and engaging with the rewriting and and engaging with the rewriting and and engaging with the prompting types but also things like uh prompting types but also things like uh prompting types but also things like uh quick prototyping. So grow your drop quick prototyping. So grow your drop quick prototyping. So grow your drop down have a particular uh kind of style

[52:30] down have a particular uh kind of style down have a particular uh kind of style uh you quickly iterate on it maybe uh you quickly iterate on it maybe uh you quickly iterate on it maybe iterate on various kinds of the same iterate on various kinds of the same iterate on various kinds of the same thing. This helps you maybe pick the one thing. This helps you maybe pick the one thing. This helps you maybe pick the one that you prefer better. I actually want that you prefer better. I actually want that you prefer better. I actually want it to look a bit more photorealistic. it to look a bit more photorealistic. it to look a bit more photorealistic. pick photo based on a quick prototype of pick photo based on a quick prototype of pick photo based on a quick prototype of like some early uh you can do this like some early uh you can do this like some early uh you can do this cheaply by doing maybe like small like cheaply by doing maybe like small like cheaply by doing maybe like small like low resolution versions of the image and low resolution versions of the image and low resolution versions of the image and things like that. This works really well things like that. This works really well things like that. This works really well with the diffusion technology itself. So with the diffusion technology itself. So with the diffusion technology itself. So actually this ends up being a good idea. actually this ends up being a good idea. actually this ends up being a good idea. Um you also make it easy for users to

[53:00] Um you also make it easy for users to Um you also make it easy for users to track what they've done. So if you want track what they've done. So if you want track what they've done. So if you want to go back I don't have this here but so to go back I don't have this here but so to go back I don't have this here but so step four and then uh I think another step four and then uh I think another step four and then uh I think another cool thing they tried here uh is to try cool thing they tried here uh is to try cool thing they tried here uh is to try to provide explanations again you know I to provide explanations again you know I to provide explanations again you know I think technology is okay on this at think technology is okay on this at think technology is okay on this at least enough to be usable uh where least enough to be usable uh where least enough to be usable uh where um so for different terms you try to um so for different terms you try to um so for different terms you try to figure out which parts of the image figure out which parts of the image figure out which parts of the image correspond to those terms users can correspond to those terms users can correspond to those terms users can modify modify modify uh sort of uh how important they want

[53:30] uh sort of uh how important they want uh sort of uh how important they want different terms to different terms to different terms to The explanation helps with building The explanation helps with building The explanation helps with building mental models and mental maps of what mental models and mental maps of what mental models and mental maps of what technology is doing enough that uh technology is doing enough that uh technology is doing enough that uh interpol uh intervening and manipulation interpol uh intervening and manipulation interpol uh intervening and manipulation is is quite a bit easier. Um and then is is quite a bit easier. Um and then is is quite a bit easier. Um and then they also allow for direct manipulation. they also allow for direct manipulation. they also allow for direct manipulation. So you know I want to remove uh an So you know I want to remove uh an So you know I want to remove uh an object say this mountain in the object say this mountain in the object say this mountain in the background I can imple background I can imple background I can imple with a simple tool and then impaint with with a simple tool and then impaint with with a simple tool and then impaint with this background. I can add things like this background. I can add things like this background. I can add things like all the stuff that again you know I

[54:01] all the stuff that again you know I all the stuff that again you know I guess now our standard tooling uh guess now our standard tooling uh guess now our standard tooling uh actually don't know this is a recent actually don't know this is a recent actually don't know this is a recent paper but still uh you know Adobe lets paper but still uh you know Adobe lets paper but still uh you know Adobe lets you do stuff like this for instance in you do stuff like this for instance in you do stuff like this for instance in many of their tools uh but as an many of their tools uh but as an many of their tools uh but as an argument for how you can make it much argument for how you can make it much argument for how you can make it much easier for people to engage with this easier for people to engage with this easier for people to engage with this prompt generation technology as opposed prompt generation technology as opposed prompt generation technology as opposed to just write your prompt and then spend to just write your prompt and then spend to just write your prompt and then spend your whole PhD uh figuring out the right your whole PhD uh figuring out the right your whole PhD uh figuring out the right prompt to get uh the image to work. So, prompt to get uh the image to work. So, prompt to get uh the image to work. So, you know, uh I think a good example of you know, uh I think a good example of you know, uh I think a good example of what it might look like to make it what it might look like to make it what it might look like to make it easier. Yes.

[54:31] easier. Yes. easier. Yes. &gt;&gt; This is more of a thought, but it feels &gt;&gt; This is more of a thought, but it feels &gt;&gt; This is more of a thought, but it feels just like a fundamentally pretty hard just like a fundamentally pretty hard just like a fundamentally pretty hard problem to solve. Like someone has this problem to solve. Like someone has this problem to solve. Like someone has this picture in mind like how do they put it picture in mind like how do they put it picture in mind like how do they put it in words cuz it was interesting that in words cuz it was interesting that in words cuz it was interesting that like techn it's like like techn it's like like techn it's like &gt;&gt; something that you can't like even a &gt;&gt; something that you can't like even a &gt;&gt; something that you can't like even a another human like if let's say someone another human like if let's say someone another human like if let's say someone was like I guess in like the police like was like I guess in like the police like was like I guess in like the police like sometimes you like draw a sketch of like sometimes you like draw a sketch of like sometimes you like draw a sketch of like a criminal if someone saw them. So like a criminal if someone saw them. So like a criminal if someone saw them. So like that process maybe could be made better that process maybe could be made better that process maybe could be made better with this. I don't know. with this. I don't know. with this. I don't know. &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is interesting as an &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is interesting as an &gt;&gt; Yeah, this is interesting as an application. I'm hearing this is an application. I'm hearing this is an application. I'm hearing this is an application of technology like this as application of technology like this as application of technology like this as opposed to So it's I'm sounding like you

[55:01] opposed to So it's I'm sounding like you opposed to So it's I'm sounding like you think this is a cool idea and then what think this is a cool idea and then what think this is a cool idea and then what are the other ways you could use this? are the other ways you could use this? are the other ways you could use this? &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah. Yeah, &gt;&gt; I'm happy to agree with that. That &gt;&gt; I'm happy to agree with that. That &gt;&gt; I'm happy to agree with that. That sounds right to me as a cool sounds right to me as a cool sounds right to me as a cool application. Yes. application. Yes. application. Yes. &gt;&gt; On the side before where it was like, &gt;&gt; On the side before where it was like, &gt;&gt; On the side before where it was like, oh, this is how this image corresponds oh, this is how this image corresponds oh, this is how this image corresponds to those to those to those &gt;&gt; words. &gt;&gt; words. &gt;&gt; words. &gt;&gt; Is that like after the fact or some kind &gt;&gt; Is that like after the fact or some kind &gt;&gt; Is that like after the fact or some kind of like attribution? I'll I'll read the of like attribution? I'll I'll read the of like attribution? I'll I'll read the paper. paper. paper. &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um they used a my understanding is &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um they used a my understanding is &gt;&gt; Yeah. Um they used a my understanding is a close hawk a close hawk a close hawk &gt;&gt; the paper at the bottom this &gt;&gt; the paper at the bottom this &gt;&gt; the paper at the bottom this interpreting stable diffusion using interpreting stable diffusion using interpreting stable diffusion using cross detention.

[55:31] cross detention. cross detention. &gt;&gt; You know it's better than nothing. I &gt;&gt; You know it's better than nothing. I &gt;&gt; You know it's better than nothing. I think interpretability tools are still think interpretability tools are still think interpretability tools are still there's some work I think to make them there's some work I think to make them there's some work I think to make them fully robust and stable for these fully robust and stable for these fully robust and stable for these contexts and the settings uh that they contexts and the settings uh that they contexts and the settings uh that they played with here. I think they work played with here. I think they work played with here. I think they work quite well. Um, but it's not perfect and quite well. Um, but it's not perfect and quite well. Um, but it's not perfect and I guess the issue has always been how I guess the issue has always been how I guess the issue has always been how robust they are. So that's a different robust they are. So that's a different robust they are. So that's a different technology problem that we also as a technology problem that we also as a technology problem that we also as a collective as a community still need to collective as a community still need to collective as a community still need to solve. But I think there are tools that solve. But I think there are tools that solve. But I think there are tools that seem good enough for people to start seem good enough for people to start seem good enough for people to start like building interfaces for instance like building interfaces for instance like building interfaces for instance people to start using. Um, so yeah, but

[56:04] people to start using. Um, so yeah, but people to start using. Um, so yeah, but yeah there those well you should get the yeah there those well you should get the yeah there those well you should get the slides. I apologize. I tend to do them slides. I apologize. I tend to do them slides. I apologize. I tend to do them after the lecture. I really should. Oh, after the lecture. I really should. Oh, after the lecture. I really should. Oh, we're almost done with the course but we're almost done with the course but we're almost done with the course but next next year everything will be ready next next year everything will be ready next next year everything will be ready ahead of time. Um and uh but yeah you ahead of time. Um and uh but yeah you ahead of time. Um and uh but yeah you can get the references so you look can get the references so you look can get the references so you look offline. offline. offline. Okay other thoughts. Okay. Um so you know data evaluation as Okay. Um so you know data evaluation as well. We'll talk a lot more about well. We'll talk a lot more about well. We'll talk a lot more about evaluation in a little bit. Um looking

[56:34] evaluation in a little bit. Um looking evaluation in a little bit. Um looking at various tasks and the accuracy of the at various tasks and the accuracy of the at various tasks and the accuracy of the users on these tasks using their tool users on these tasks using their tool users on these tasks using their tool versus uh other approaches that they versus uh other approaches that they versus uh other approaches that they could have tried. Okay. Um so you know could have tried. Okay. Um so you know could have tried. Okay. Um so you know building interactive systems uh good building interactive systems uh good building interactive systems uh good ways to think about it have lots of ways to think about it have lots of ways to think about it have lots of different components. Um some of it different components. Um some of it different components. Um some of it include thinking about who your include thinking about who your include thinking about who your stakeholders are. So think about uh stakeholders are. So think about uh stakeholders are. So think about uh human cognition perception. Uh the more human cognition perception. Uh the more human cognition perception. Uh the more cognitive loaded the task the more you cognitive loaded the task the more you cognitive loaded the task the more you want to make it uh easy for humans to be

[57:05] want to make it uh easy for humans to be want to make it uh easy for humans to be creative so they can engage meaningfully creative so they can engage meaningfully creative so they can engage meaningfully in sort of complicated cognitively in sort of complicated cognitively in sort of complicated cognitively loaded tasks. So like the example we loaded tasks. So like the example we loaded tasks. So like the example we just showed um there's a lot to be said just showed um there's a lot to be said just showed um there's a lot to be said about trust and reliance on the about trust and reliance on the about trust and reliance on the technology that you're building. So you technology that you're building. So you technology that you're building. So you know uh you want to ideally build a tool know uh you want to ideally build a tool know uh you want to ideally build a tool such that if appropriate users can such that if appropriate users can such that if appropriate users can depend on it to actually solve reliably depend on it to actually solve reliably depend on it to actually solve reliably the task uh that the tool is meant to the task uh that the tool is meant to the task uh that the tool is meant to solve. Reliability can play a huge role solve. Reliability can play a huge role solve. Reliability can play a huge role u sort of calibrated trust can play a u sort of calibrated trust can play a u sort of calibrated trust can play a huge role and getting that right can be

[57:35] huge role and getting that right can be huge role and getting that right can be tricky. I'll do a quick slide on it, but tricky. I'll do a quick slide on it, but tricky. I'll do a quick slide on it, but uh I think mental models often over uh I think mental models often over uh I think mental models often over undersshoot and trust. So users either undersshoot and trust. So users either undersshoot and trust. So users either trust too much and sort of don't trust too much and sort of don't trust too much and sort of don't appreciate the corners of where the tool appreciate the corners of where the tool appreciate the corners of where the tool can actually work or they have one bad can actually work or they have one bad can actually work or they have one bad experience and then think that the tool experience and then think that the tool experience and then think that the tool is garbage and you know don't actually is garbage and you know don't actually is garbage and you know don't actually figure out where the tool is useful. So figure out where the tool is useful. So figure out where the tool is useful. So getting the trust calibrated is itself I getting the trust calibrated is itself I getting the trust calibrated is itself I think a challenging part of good user think a challenging part of good user think a challenging part of good user interfaces. Um yeah, other aspects of interfaces. Um yeah, other aspects of interfaces. Um yeah, other aspects of building tools uh broadly in the world,

[58:06] building tools uh broadly in the world, building tools uh broadly in the world, things like accountability, fairness, things like accountability, fairness, things like accountability, fairness, transparency, ethics. Um we'll have a transparency, ethics. Um we'll have a transparency, ethics. Um we'll have a separate lecture that spends a bit more separate lecture that spends a bit more separate lecture that spends a bit more on these kinds of topics. Um but uh you on these kinds of topics. Um but uh you on these kinds of topics. Um but uh you want to build tools ideally that works want to build tools ideally that works want to build tools ideally that works for a broad range of individuals and in for a broad range of individuals and in for a broad range of individuals and in particular doesn't perpetuate bias or particular doesn't perpetuate bias or particular doesn't perpetuate bias or discrimination or based on different discrimination or based on different discrimination or based on different stakeholder groups as much as possible stakeholder groups as much as possible stakeholder groups as much as possible as I guess normatively for many of us I as I guess normatively for many of us I as I guess normatively for many of us I think thought of as a good design goal. think thought of as a good design goal. think thought of as a good design goal. Um and then things like personalization, Um and then things like personalization, Um and then things like personalization, adaptation, and giving feedback easily.

[58:38] adaptation, and giving feedback easily. adaptation, and giving feedback easily. Things like guiding interaction Things like guiding interaction Things like guiding interaction so that it's easy for particular so that it's easy for particular so that it's easy for particular individual users with their preferences individual users with their preferences individual users with their preferences and needs uh to engage with the tool. and needs uh to engage with the tool. and needs uh to engage with the tool. Maybe to your point also maybe even Maybe to your point also maybe even Maybe to your point also maybe even learn how to engage easily but make that learn how to engage easily but make that learn how to engage easily but make that you know as friction free as possible um you know as friction free as possible um you know as friction free as possible um and improve over time to better align and improve over time to better align and improve over time to better align with human preferences. with human preferences. with human preferences. Okay. So bit on some of the details. So Okay. So bit on some of the details. So Okay. So bit on some of the details. So things like trust and reliance. So as things like trust and reliance. So as things like trust and reliance. So as already mentioned trust is some uh

[59:08] already mentioned trust is some uh already mentioned trust is some uh um evaluation of uh the belief for um evaluation of uh the belief for um evaluation of uh the belief for confidence and reliability, integrity, confidence and reliability, integrity, confidence and reliability, integrity, honesty. It's really a human uh honesty. It's really a human uh honesty. It's really a human uh property. I think more and more we apply property. I think more and more we apply property. I think more and more we apply the same analogy and concepts very the same analogy and concepts very the same analogy and concepts very directly to machines to things like directly to machines to things like directly to machines to things like agents. Um agents. Um agents. Um reliance is a reliance is a reliance is a uh again another property thinking about uh again another property thinking about uh again another property thinking about uh depending on someone or something to uh depending on someone or something to uh depending on someone or something to perform a specific function or task

[59:38] perform a specific function or task perform a specific function or task irrespective of whether trust is irrespective of whether trust is irrespective of whether trust is present. So in some sense they're present. So in some sense they're present. So in some sense they're distinct from each other. You can have distinct from each other. You can have distinct from each other. You can have lots of differences this four cordon lots of differences this four cordon lots of differences this four cordon thing between uh humans and maybe human thing between uh humans and maybe human thing between uh humans and maybe human decision maker and the AI tool they decision maker and the AI tool they decision maker and the AI tool they might be using where um if a human might be using where um if a human might be using where um if a human decision maker always rejects the decision maker always rejects the decision maker always rejects the decision but the decision is correct decision but the decision is correct decision but the decision is correct then there's underlyance problem then there's underlyance problem then there's underlyance problem if it always accepts the decision. So if it always accepts the decision. So if it always accepts the decision. So this automation bias kind of thing. Uh

[1:00:08] this automation bias kind of thing. Uh this automation bias kind of thing. Uh sorry. Well, if it accepts and it's sorry. Well, if it accepts and it's sorry. Well, if it accepts and it's correct, then it's good. So it's correct, then it's good. So it's correct, then it's good. So it's appropriate reliance. But if it accepts appropriate reliance. But if it accepts appropriate reliance. But if it accepts almost no matter what the AI says and almost no matter what the AI says and almost no matter what the AI says and particularly when the isn't correct, particularly when the isn't correct, particularly when the isn't correct, then it's overreiance problem often then it's overreiance problem often then it's overreiance problem often sometimes called automation bias. Uh and sometimes called automation bias. Uh and sometimes called automation bias. Uh and then um if it rejects when it should then um if it rejects when it should then um if it rejects when it should that's also appropriate. So you get that's also appropriate. So you get that's also appropriate. So you get appropriate lines. So some of the appropriate lines. So some of the appropriate lines. So some of the challenges here figure include trying to challenges here figure include trying to challenges here figure include trying to design the overall system such that design the overall system such that design the overall system such that you're in the green parts of this uh you're in the green parts of this uh you're in the green parts of this uh setup. So I'm not going to go into setup. So I'm not going to go into setup. So I'm not going to go into technology. There's a bit more in uh the

[1:00:40] technology. There's a bit more in uh the technology. There's a bit more in uh the reference material but mention this as reference material but mention this as reference material but mention this as the target of good uh design. the target of good uh design. the target of good uh design. I guess I will go a little bit. So uh I guess I will go a little bit. So uh I guess I will go a little bit. So uh one way that you could do this sometimes one way that you could do this sometimes one way that you could do this sometimes is helpful is things like explanations is helpful is things like explanations is helpful is things like explanations as we talked about briefly. uh sometimes as we talked about briefly. uh sometimes as we talked about briefly. uh sometimes showing uncertainty helps. I think the showing uncertainty helps. I think the showing uncertainty helps. I think the research is still open on this. Uh but research is still open on this. Uh but research is still open on this. Uh but there are ways to meaning you know I there are ways to meaning you know I there are ways to meaning you know I think the research is open because the think the research is open because the think the research is open because the way people understand uncertainty is is way people understand uncertainty is is way people understand uncertainty is is still tricky like you know people tend

[1:01:11] still tricky like you know people tend still tricky like you know people tend not to be good at actual percentages. not to be good at actual percentages. not to be good at actual percentages. They bucket into big ranges like low, They bucket into big ranges like low, They bucket into big ranges like low, medium, high is roughly at least my medium, high is roughly at least my medium, high is roughly at least my understanding of the best research in understanding of the best research in understanding of the best research in this space. Um but still uh showing this space. Um but still uh showing this space. Um but still uh showing uncertainty uh can be a useful way to uncertainty uh can be a useful way to uncertainty uh can be a useful way to better calibrate the user to what the AI better calibrate the user to what the AI better calibrate the user to what the AI is actually good or bad at. Um allowing is actually good or bad at. Um allowing is actually good or bad at. Um allowing the user agency to maybe decide when to the user agency to maybe decide when to the user agency to maybe decide when to see results. So allowing for sort of see results. So allowing for sort of see results. So allowing for sort of self-prompted uh suggestions as opposed

[1:01:42] self-prompted uh suggestions as opposed self-prompted uh suggestions as opposed to things are automated. um showing the to things are automated. um showing the to things are automated. um showing the processing processing processing so you know showing that there's work so you know showing that there's work so you know showing that there's work happening actually sometimes builds good happening actually sometimes builds good happening actually sometimes builds good mental models for people instead of how mental models for people instead of how mental models for people instead of how easy or hard certain tasks are. So even easy or hard certain tasks are. So even easy or hard certain tasks are. So even though it's in some ways it's a bad though it's in some ways it's a bad though it's in some ways it's a bad thing because people are waiting but it thing because people are waiting but it thing because people are waiting but it can actually be good in that it can be a can actually be good in that it can be a can actually be good in that it can be a way to calibrate on effort or difficulty way to calibrate on effort or difficulty way to calibrate on effort or difficulty maybe effort is not the right word maybe effort is not the right word maybe effort is not the right word difficulty of particular task and can difficulty of particular task and can difficulty of particular task and can help people build mental models to them help people build mental models to them help people build mental models to them have better calibrated trust. Uh so some have better calibrated trust. Uh so some have better calibrated trust. Uh so some tooling bunch more others good

[1:02:13] tooling bunch more others good tooling bunch more others good references on thinking about some of references on thinking about some of references on thinking about some of what we know about uh making this better what we know about uh making this better what we know about uh making this better uh questions on fairness accountability. uh questions on fairness accountability. uh questions on fairness accountability. So my fairness questions again making So my fairness questions again making So my fairness questions again making sure or as a normative goal thinking sure or as a normative goal thinking sure or as a normative goal thinking about tools that don't behave very about tools that don't behave very about tools that don't behave very differently say based on things like differently say based on things like differently say based on things like gender or sex other kinds of gender or sex other kinds of gender or sex other kinds of demographics soio economic factors. So demographics soio economic factors. So demographics soio economic factors. So tools that can work for various diverse tools that can work for various diverse tools that can work for various diverse populations. Um accountability here populations. Um accountability here populations. Um accountability here measuring

[1:02:43] measuring measuring uh so for example in um uh thinking uh so for example in um uh thinking uh so for example in um uh thinking through consequences of mistakes and through consequences of mistakes and through consequences of mistakes and then building that somehow into how you then building that somehow into how you then building that somehow into how you evaluate and build systems. So for evaluate and build systems. So for evaluate and build systems. So for instance, things like mistransation instance, things like mistransation instance, things like mistransation uh can be a lowrisk thing and I don't uh can be a lowrisk thing and I don't uh can be a lowrisk thing and I don't know if you're playing with the chatbot know if you're playing with the chatbot know if you're playing with the chatbot model can be a high-risisk thing if this model can be a high-risisk thing if this model can be a high-risisk thing if this is a translation used for uh decision is a translation used for uh decision is a translation used for uh decision about um what's this uh asylum for about um what's this uh asylum for about um what's this uh asylum for instance in a different language right instance in a different language right instance in a different language right this is someone's life uh some big life

[1:03:14] this is someone's life uh some big life this is someone's life uh some big life decision that a translation error can decision that a translation error can decision that a translation error can make a huge impact on and this happens make a huge impact on and this happens make a huge impact on and this happens actually it's a big issue so uh getting actually it's a big issue so uh getting actually it's a big issue so uh getting that right and calibrating that that right and calibrating that that right and calibrating that correctly correctly correctly for you know normatively we want the for you know normatively we want the for you know normatively we want the tool to be as good as it can be but also tool to be as good as it can be but also tool to be as good as it can be but also you know when it's not good we want the you know when it's not good we want the you know when it's not good we want the stakeholders to understand the gaps in stakeholders to understand the gaps in stakeholders to understand the gaps in the tool so the the user themselves to the tool so the the user themselves to the tool so the the user themselves to understand it the say the judge or other understand it the say the judge or other understand it the say the judge or other parts of legal system to understand it parts of legal system to understand it parts of legal system to understand it the better you can achieve that the the better you can achieve that the the better you can achieve that the better you can have better better you can have better better you can have better accountability and s of correctly placed

[1:03:44] accountability and s of correctly placed accountability and s of correctly placed accountability for accountability for accountability for good and bad parts of technology tools good and bad parts of technology tools good and bad parts of technology tools uh transparency can often be useful. I uh transparency can often be useful. I uh transparency can often be useful. I think this one is somewhat yeah. yeah. Oh, it also is a big bucket Oh, it also is a big bucket Oh, it also is a big bucket transparency. What I was going to say is transparency. What I was going to say is transparency. What I was going to say is it's slightly controversial as well. Uh it's slightly controversial as well. Uh it's slightly controversial as well. Uh in the sense that I think the arguments in the sense that I think the arguments in the sense that I think the arguments one arguments that that's made all the one arguments that that's made all the one arguments that that's made all the time is that uh you shouldn't trust

[1:04:14] time is that uh you shouldn't trust time is that uh you shouldn't trust models that you can't understand. I models that you can't understand. I models that you can't understand. I think again sorry coming back the think again sorry coming back the think again sorry coming back the comment you made earlier about how will comment you made earlier about how will comment you made earlier about how will we understand AI tools. There's a kind we understand AI tools. There's a kind we understand AI tools. There's a kind of argument that we actually don't of argument that we actually don't of argument that we actually don't understand lots of things we trust. Uh understand lots of things we trust. Uh understand lots of things we trust. Uh and the example people like to use a lot and the example people like to use a lot and the example people like to use a lot is like aspirin and medical things that is like aspirin and medical things that is like aspirin and medical things that you know we know something about the you know we know something about the you know we know something about the outcome. We don't know the mechanism outcome. We don't know the mechanism outcome. We don't know the mechanism actually all that well. We I see I see actually all that well. We I see I see actually all that well. We I see I see some surprised faces. Go look it up. some surprised faces. Go look it up. some surprised faces. Go look it up. It's actually It's actually It's actually &gt;&gt; what is it? &gt;&gt; what is it? &gt;&gt; what is it? &gt;&gt; Aspirin. &gt;&gt; Aspirin. &gt;&gt; Aspirin. &gt;&gt; Yeah. But there's lots of other sort of &gt;&gt; Yeah. But there's lots of other sort of &gt;&gt; Yeah. But there's lots of other sort of uh most doctors for instance don't

[1:04:44] uh most doctors for instance don't uh most doctors for instance don't understand MRI in any kind of technical understand MRI in any kind of technical understand MRI in any kind of technical detail. they understand input output detail. they understand input output detail. they understand input output uh enough that they can use it for uh enough that they can use it for uh enough that they can use it for decision- making but they're not decision- making but they're not decision- making but they're not physicists they have specialized physicists they have specialized physicists they have specialized physicists in the hospital whose job it physicists in the hospital whose job it physicists in the hospital whose job it is to like understand the MRI um I don't is to like understand the MRI um I don't is to like understand the MRI um I don't know where the field will land but know where the field will land but know where the field will land but that's maybe a separate question I think that's maybe a separate question I think that's maybe a separate question I think uh what's useful here is to say that it uh what's useful here is to say that it uh what's useful here is to say that it can be a useful way to calibrate user can be a useful way to calibrate user can be a useful way to calibrate user interfaces is if possible explain interfaces is if possible explain interfaces is if possible explain explanability transparency of things explanability transparency of things explanability transparency of things that are going on under the hood can be

[1:05:15] that are going on under the hood can be that are going on under the hood can be useful and then also ethics So we talked useful and then also ethics So we talked useful and then also ethics So we talked about this briefly but thinking through about this briefly but thinking through about this briefly but thinking through um uh various kinds of interactions um uh various kinds of interactions um uh various kinds of interactions between humans and EIs and uh what they between humans and EIs and uh what they between humans and EIs and uh what they mean in context of broader world uh and mean in context of broader world uh and mean in context of broader world uh and uh maybe you know again different uh maybe you know again different uh maybe you know again different ethical perspectives from different ethical perspectives from different ethical perspectives from different stakeholders think about ways to bridge stakeholders think about ways to bridge stakeholders think about ways to bridge between uh the ethical perspective of between uh the ethical perspective of between uh the ethical perspective of the humans and what the AI tools can uh the humans and what the AI tools can uh the humans and what the AI tools can uh I guess to what extent can we have

[1:05:45] I guess to what extent can we have I guess to what extent can we have decision-m from AI tools match human decision-m from AI tools match human decision-m from AI tools match human ethical principles and values again part ethical principles and values again part ethical principles and values again part of the goal of the broader class as of the goal of the broader class as of the goal of the broader class as we've talked about and we'll spend a we've talked about and we'll spend a we've talked about and we'll spend a little bit more time on that I think little bit more time on that I think little bit more time on that I think couple lectures from now couple lectures from now couple lectures from now okay um so uh okay um so uh okay um so uh in addition to thinking about what we in addition to thinking about what we in addition to thinking about what we would like in good interaction design is would like in good interaction design is would like in good interaction design is also thinking about you know who starts also thinking about you know who starts also thinking about you know who starts or how the interaction gets started so or how the interaction gets started so or how the interaction gets started so you know on one end it's the sort of you know on one end it's the sort of you know on one end it's the sort of human as the initiator so human as a

[1:06:16] human as the initiator so human as a human as the initiator so human as a creator using computer as a tool and creator using computer as a tool and creator using computer as a tool and your goal is to sort of uh make it easy your goal is to sort of uh make it easy your goal is to sort of uh make it easy uh to the human for instance to be uh to the human for instance to be uh to the human for instance to be creative uh would be one potential creative uh would be one potential creative uh would be one potential outcome. The other might be a computer outcome. The other might be a computer outcome. The other might be a computer initiative. So computer is sort of initiative. So computer is sort of initiative. So computer is sort of deploying something maybe automatically. deploying something maybe automatically. deploying something maybe automatically. Uh so human is the audience uh computer Uh so human is the audience uh computer Uh so human is the audience uh computer is the creator. Uh and here your goal is is the creator. Uh and here your goal is is the creator. Uh and here your goal is to make the computational outcome uh to make the computational outcome uh to make the computational outcome uh creative such that it might meet the creative such that it might meet the creative such that it might meet the need. So you can imagine for instance uh

[1:06:47] need. So you can imagine for instance uh need. So you can imagine for instance uh things like things like things like controversially but I think true like controversially but I think true like controversially but I think true like automated things like art and things automated things like art and things automated things like art and things like that as examples of cases at the like that as examples of cases at the like that as examples of cases at the other extreme uh most other extreme uh most other extreme uh most many real world things are somewhere in many real world things are somewhere in many real world things are somewhere in between some mixed initiative and I between some mixed initiative and I between some mixed initiative and I think increasingly there's interest in think increasingly there's interest in think increasingly there's interest in thinking through more carefully what thinking through more carefully what thinking through more carefully what collaborative human AI interaction looks collaborative human AI interaction looks collaborative human AI interaction looks like um where both ties are like um where both ties are like um where both ties are collaborative there's some mixed collaborative there's some mixed collaborative there's some mixed initiative potential outcome um how do I initiative potential outcome um how do I initiative potential outcome um how do I make it easy for that to happen? So

[1:07:19] make it easy for that to happen? So make it easy for that to happen? So mixed initiative systems allow for mixed initiative systems allow for mixed initiative systems allow for collaboration where the user and the collaboration where the user and the collaboration where the user and the system both take an active role in system both take an active role in system both take an active role in carrying out tasks and making decisions carrying out tasks and making decisions carrying out tasks and making decisions and uh to do it well you have to couple and uh to do it well you have to couple and uh to do it well you have to couple sort of automated services with various sort of automated services with various sort of automated services with various kinds of direct manipulation that uh kinds of direct manipulation that uh kinds of direct manipulation that uh encourage creativity. Uh so you could do encourage creativity. Uh so you could do encourage creativity. Uh so you could do this for instance by creating automated this for instance by creating automated this for instance by creating automated agents that take actions only when the agents that take actions only when the agents that take actions only when the agent believes uh a little bit that they agent believes uh a little bit that they agent believes uh a little bit that they will have greater expected value than will have greater expected value than will have greater expected value than not doing anything in a particular not doing anything in a particular not doing anything in a particular context for the user.

[1:07:50] context for the user. context for the user. Um so again more detail in some of the Um so again more detail in some of the Um so again more detail in some of the references and the rest of the text. Uh references and the rest of the text. Uh references and the rest of the text. Uh but just to summarize some of uh what but just to summarize some of uh what but just to summarize some of uh what we've said about interaction design. So we've said about interaction design. So we've said about interaction design. So ideally you can make it seamless without ideally you can make it seamless without ideally you can make it seamless without necessarily having explicit instruction necessarily having explicit instruction necessarily having explicit instruction manuals. Some of the ways they can do manuals. Some of the ways they can do manuals. Some of the ways they can do this include uh thinking through how this include uh thinking through how this include uh thinking through how humans interact with the world and humans interact with the world and humans interact with the world and extending those affordances sort of at extending those affordances sort of at extending those affordances sort of at least uh standard interaction mechanisms least uh standard interaction mechanisms least uh standard interaction mechanisms making it easier for those to match well making it easier for those to match well making it easier for those to match well with what the algorithm is expecting. Um

[1:08:22] with what the algorithm is expecting. Um with what the algorithm is expecting. Um design thinking is very helpful. uh design thinking is very helpful. uh design thinking is very helpful. uh things like finding the root cause of a things like finding the root cause of a things like finding the root cause of a problem, finding solutions, iterating problem, finding solutions, iterating problem, finding solutions, iterating back and forth uh so you can ideally back and forth uh so you can ideally back and forth uh so you can ideally build applications that users actually build applications that users actually build applications that users actually want to use as opposed to have to want to use as opposed to have to want to use as opposed to have to perhaps. Um and then beyond the human perhaps. Um and then beyond the human perhaps. Um and then beyond the human factors that are about usability, uh factors that are about usability, uh factors that are about usability, uh there are also sort of maybe unseen there are also sort of maybe unseen there are also sort of maybe unseen human factors, things like psychological human factors, things like psychological human factors, things like psychological and cognitive aspects, um underlying and cognitive aspects, um underlying and cognitive aspects, um underlying trust and reliance, implications in the trust and reliance, implications in the trust and reliance, implications in the real world, things like um ethics and real world, things like um ethics and real world, things like um ethics and fairness and the other issues that we

[1:08:53] fairness and the other issues that we fairness and the other issues that we talked about briefly. talked about briefly. talked about briefly. Okay, so I'll switch gears here for the Okay, so I'll switch gears here for the Okay, so I'll switch gears here for the last uh 10 minutes or so. I'll talk last uh 10 minutes or so. I'll talk last uh 10 minutes or so. I'll talk about evaluating human AI interactions. about evaluating human AI interactions. about evaluating human AI interactions. So some of the key questions that you So some of the key questions that you So some of the key questions that you want to be asking when you think about want to be asking when you think about want to be asking when you think about evaluation are you know the how, what, evaluation are you know the how, what, evaluation are you know the how, what, who, when. So how are we evaluating, who, when. So how are we evaluating, who, when. So how are we evaluating, what is being evaluated, who is doing what is being evaluated, who is doing what is being evaluated, who is doing evaluating, when do we evaluate. So on evaluating, when do we evaluate. So on evaluating, when do we evaluate. So on the how there are a bunch of different the how there are a bunch of different the how there are a bunch of different uh directions that one could go. The the uh directions that one could go. The the uh directions that one could go. The the key ones being uh on the methods, on the

[1:09:25] key ones being uh on the methods, on the key ones being uh on the methods, on the types, and on the metric types that you types, and on the metric types that you types, and on the metric types that you might pick. So methods, things like might pick. So methods, things like might pick. So methods, things like quantitative evaluation, which is I quantitative evaluation, which is I quantitative evaluation, which is I think what we're best at. You know, you think what we're best at. You know, you think what we're best at. You know, you find some number that quantifies what find some number that quantifies what find some number that quantifies what you hope will happen in the task. Task you hope will happen in the task. Task you hope will happen in the task. Task completion, things like that. Um, how completion, things like that. Um, how completion, things like that. Um, how many questions did the model answer many questions did the model answer many questions did the model answer correctly? Did the user complete the correctly? Did the user complete the correctly? Did the user complete the task? How long did it take? So there are task? How long did it take? So there are task? How long did it take? So there are quantitative evaluations. Uh, quantitative evaluations. Uh, quantitative evaluations. Uh, qualitative evaluations are more qualitative evaluations are more qualitative evaluations are more open-ended. We do things like surveys,

[1:09:55] open-ended. We do things like surveys, open-ended. We do things like surveys, ask people or try to think through what ask people or try to think through what ask people or try to think through what are some reasons that the model answered are some reasons that the model answered are some reasons that the model answered some questions incorrectly. What did the some questions incorrectly. What did the some questions incorrectly. What did the user or stakeholder group like about the user or stakeholder group like about the user or stakeholder group like about the experience? Were they frustrated? So experience? Were they frustrated? So experience? Were they frustrated? So often in a good design study, you do often in a good design study, you do often in a good design study, you do some kind of qualitative evaluation. Uh some kind of qualitative evaluation. Uh some kind of qualitative evaluation. Uh this this gap is striking in I think this this gap is striking in I think this this gap is striking in I think language models because as many of you language models because as many of you language models because as many of you know uh the quantitative evaluation know uh the quantitative evaluation know uh the quantitative evaluation particularly via benchmarks are again particularly via benchmarks are again particularly via benchmarks are again somewhat precise in ranking models. somewhat precise in ranking models. somewhat precise in ranking models. people's lived experiences with models

[1:10:25] people's lived experiences with models people's lived experiences with models often diverge from what the benchmarks often diverge from what the benchmarks often diverge from what the benchmarks say. So often these can give you quite say. So often these can give you quite say. So often these can give you quite different information when there's a different information when there's a different information when there's a gap. At least my personal perspective is gap. At least my personal perspective is gap. At least my personal perspective is that there's a this says that there's that there's a this says that there's that there's a this says that there's some issue with the quant quantification some issue with the quant quantification some issue with the quant quantification and so we should make better tooling on and so we should make better tooling on and so we should make better tooling on the quantification side like that it the quantification side like that it the quantification side like that it better captures what people like about better captures what people like about better captures what people like about tools. But I think the key point here is tools. But I think the key point here is tools. But I think the key point here is uh in terms of valuation uh both kinds uh in terms of valuation uh both kinds uh in terms of valuation uh both kinds of valuation actually carry signal and of valuation actually carry signal and of valuation actually carry signal and their importance in their own right both their importance in their own right both their importance in their own right both the quantitative turning things into the quantitative turning things into the quantitative turning things into numbers uh that we can then compare rank

[1:10:57] numbers uh that we can then compare rank numbers uh that we can then compare rank select things like that and then select things like that and then select things like that and then qualitative understanding the why qualitative understanding the why qualitative understanding the why perhaps open-ended that we can then perhaps open-ended that we can then perhaps open-ended that we can then synthesize into hopefully better ways of synthesize into hopefully better ways of synthesize into hopefully better ways of measuring is at least in my mind often measuring is at least in my mind often measuring is at least in my mind often one of the useful use cases of these. one of the useful use cases of these. one of the useful use cases of these. Okay. Uh there's also an evaluation side Okay. Uh there's also an evaluation side Okay. Uh there's also an evaluation side of thinking about types of evaluation. of thinking about types of evaluation. of thinking about types of evaluation. So there's intrinsic evaluation uh which So there's intrinsic evaluation uh which So there's intrinsic evaluation uh which is we just take the model on its own is we just take the model on its own is we just take the model on its own have an NLP model uh again benchmarks do have an NLP model uh again benchmarks do have an NLP model uh again benchmarks do this. I just want to understand how the this. I just want to understand how the this. I just want to understand how the model works in a specific task directly

[1:11:27] model works in a specific task directly model works in a specific task directly related to models performance. So this related to models performance. So this related to models performance. So this may or may not involve users in any may or may not involve users in any may or may not involve users in any explicit way. Um there's also uh so you explicit way. Um there's also uh so you explicit way. Um there's also uh so you know you can imagine log likelihood or know you can imagine log likelihood or know you can imagine log likelihood or like benchmark completion in that sense. like benchmark completion in that sense. like benchmark completion in that sense. There's also extrinsic evaluations. So There's also extrinsic evaluations. So There's also extrinsic evaluations. So how helpful is the model in some real how helpful is the model in some real how helpful is the model in some real world ideally downstream task. So you're world ideally downstream task. So you're world ideally downstream task. So you're evaluating it within the context of a of evaluating it within the context of a of evaluating it within the context of a of some use case. Um so you know if you're some use case. Um so you know if you're some use case. Um so you know if you're building a coding assistant you're building a coding assistant you're building a coding assistant you're evaluating within the coding context as evaluating within the coding context as evaluating within the coding context as opposed to generically you know having a

[1:11:57] opposed to generically you know having a opposed to generically you know having a database of code completion tests that database of code completion tests that database of code completion tests that is a benchmark and you can get again is a benchmark and you can get again is a benchmark and you can get again very different signal in the intrinsic very different signal in the intrinsic very different signal in the intrinsic abstract evaluation compared to abstract evaluation compared to abstract evaluation compared to exttrinsic within use case context exttrinsic within use case context exttrinsic within use case context evaluation. So both can be very evaluation. So both can be very evaluation. So both can be very valuable. Intrinsic tends to be faster, valuable. Intrinsic tends to be faster, valuable. Intrinsic tends to be faster, you know, uh because you don't have to you know, uh because you don't have to you know, uh because you don't have to build it into the uh experience. Um build it into the uh experience. Um build it into the uh experience. Um extrinsic can be slower, but it can extrinsic can be slower, but it can extrinsic can be slower, but it can often reel gaps in the intrinsic. So often reel gaps in the intrinsic. So often reel gaps in the intrinsic. So again, very useful as part of evaluation again, very useful as part of evaluation again, very useful as part of evaluation process. And then finally things like

[1:12:27] process. And then finally things like process. And then finally things like metrics. So uh over time there's work in metrics. So uh over time there's work in metrics. So uh over time there's work in trying to validate a set of different trying to validate a set of different trying to validate a set of different metrics as quantifications of uh various metrics as quantifications of uh various metrics as quantifications of uh various kinds of tools. Uh so quantifications kinds of tools. Uh so quantifications kinds of tools. Uh so quantifications for instance of things like productivity for instance of things like productivity for instance of things like productivity things like how many lines of code were things like how many lines of code were things like how many lines of code were was added in a certain coding tool. So was added in a certain coding tool. So was added in a certain coding tool. So sorry you have a coding tool you have a sorry you have a coding tool you have a sorry you have a coding tool you have a human engagement coding tool you measure human engagement coding tool you measure human engagement coding tool you measure lines of code that is as a lines of code that is as a lines of code that is as a quantification of productivity for quantification of productivity for quantification of productivity for instance um things like costs uh how

[1:12:57] instance um things like costs uh how instance um things like costs uh how much they cost for you know adding this much they cost for you know adding this much they cost for you know adding this tool in some larger context of cost. Um tool in some larger context of cost. Um tool in some larger context of cost. Um some of the choices here include do you some of the choices here include do you some of the choices here include do you rely mostly on existing validated rely mostly on existing validated rely mostly on existing validated metrics where people have done some work metrics where people have done some work metrics where people have done some work to say that this is a good metric. I'm to say that this is a good metric. I'm to say that this is a good metric. I'm I'm saying this from the paper by the I'm saying this from the paper by the I'm saying this from the paper by the way that's referenced at the end. It's a way that's referenced at the end. It's a way that's referenced at the end. It's a good read and I'm thinking about good read and I'm thinking about good read and I'm thinking about evaluation of pair programming human AI evaluation of pair programming human AI evaluation of pair programming human AI pair programming. Um do you try to come pair programming. Um do you try to come pair programming. Um do you try to come up with a new metric that maybe better up with a new metric that maybe better up with a new metric that maybe better captures the context some important captures the context some important captures the context some important design decisions and trying to build design decisions and trying to build design decisions and trying to build evaluations

[1:13:29] evaluations evaluations um on the what is being evaluated. So um on the what is being evaluated. So um on the what is being evaluated. So again it can be the model it can be the again it can be the model it can be the again it can be the model it can be the HCI it can be whole end to end uh often HCI it can be whole end to end uh often HCI it can be whole end to end uh often these are separate modules uh combined these are separate modules uh combined these are separate modules uh combined together to solve some task uh so in the together to solve some task uh so in the together to solve some task uh so in the code review case code is a good one uh code review case code is a good one uh code review case code is a good one uh they built there's a tool called they built there's a tool called they built there's a tool called critique um and uh reviewer asks for critique um and uh reviewer asks for critique um and uh reviewer asks for sort of some defensive coding practice sort of some defensive coding practice sort of some defensive coding practice the author the model asks ask acts as a the author the model asks ask acts as a the author the model asks ask acts as a reviewer u I guess you can have either

[1:14:01] reviewer u I guess you can have either reviewer u I guess you can have either way, model or reviewer being the AI way, model or reviewer being the AI way, model or reviewer being the AI tool. Um, and you have, you know, within tool. Um, and you have, you know, within tool. Um, and you have, you know, within this, uh, say different kinds of things this, uh, say different kinds of things this, uh, say different kinds of things like different colors to identify parts like different colors to identify parts like different colors to identify parts of code, um, that should be added or of code, um, that should be added or of code, um, that should be added or removed, things like that. Um, the key removed, things like that. Um, the key removed, things like that. Um, the key point here being uh, there's an point here being uh, there's an point here being uh, there's an underlying technology under the hood. underlying technology under the hood. underlying technology under the hood. There is a sort of hi interface and ease There is a sort of hi interface and ease There is a sort of hi interface and ease of interaction with the tool and there's of interaction with the tool and there's of interaction with the tool and there's also the end to end. And so in also the end to end. And so in also the end to end. And so in evaluation often you will do oh most evaluation often you will do oh most evaluation often you will do oh most good evaluations do these things

[1:14:32] good evaluations do these things good evaluations do these things separately and then think about the well separately and then think about the well separately and then think about the well the end to end is the whole thing. So the end to end is the whole thing. So the end to end is the whole thing. So you have that it's part of it. Um you you have that it's part of it. Um you you have that it's part of it. Um you can also think about different goals of can also think about different goals of can also think about different goals of the evaluation. So things like utility the evaluation. So things like utility the evaluation. So things like utility satisfaction a whole bunch of different satisfaction a whole bunch of different satisfaction a whole bunch of different goals. Um so here you know um I have goals. Um so here you know um I have goals. Um so here you know um I have some some some different code snippets. You can ask uh different code snippets. You can ask uh different code snippets. You can ask uh a metric that looks at whether that the a metric that looks at whether that the a metric that looks at whether that the code passed or didn't pass some tests or code passed or didn't pass some tests or code passed or didn't pass some tests or you could ask how close is it to some

[1:15:02] you could ask how close is it to some you could ask how close is it to some reference code. So just similarity reference code. So just similarity reference code. So just similarity matching between the text or you could matching between the text or you could matching between the text or you could ask you know a human to give preferences ask you know a human to give preferences ask you know a human to give preferences on the code outcomes and get a sense of on the code outcomes and get a sense of on the code outcomes and get a sense of did the human like the new code. Again did the human like the new code. Again did the human like the new code. Again different ways of measuring. Uh so different ways of measuring. Uh so different ways of measuring. Uh so different goals that you could have in different goals that you could have in different goals that you could have in the evaluation process and again any the evaluation process and again any the evaluation process and again any good study design has lots of these. good study design has lots of these. good study design has lots of these. Again hopefully it's clear it's a huge Again hopefully it's clear it's a huge Again hopefully it's clear it's a huge design space of evaluations. Uh bunch of design space of evaluations. Uh bunch of design space of evaluations. Uh bunch of work thinking about all these I think work thinking about all these I think work thinking about all these I think good studies will tend to pick a subset good studies will tend to pick a subset good studies will tend to pick a subset of these that are most relevant to the of these that are most relevant to the of these that are most relevant to the context and think about how they

[1:15:32] context and think about how they context and think about how they implement operationalize these u these implement operationalize these u these implement operationalize these u these choices uh in an evaluation process. choices uh in an evaluation process. choices uh in an evaluation process. Now finally uh you want to think about I Now finally uh you want to think about I Now finally uh you want to think about I think finally who is evaluating. So it think finally who is evaluating. So it think finally who is evaluating. So it could be lay users, it could be domain could be lay users, it could be domain could be lay users, it could be domain expert, it could be some kind of expert, it could be some kind of expert, it could be some kind of automated valuation things like LM as a automated valuation things like LM as a automated valuation things like LM as a judge is more and more popular. Um so judge is more and more popular. Um so judge is more and more popular. Um so this ties to this question. It's it's this ties to this question. It's it's this ties to this question. It's it's tricky to design systems that work for tricky to design systems that work for tricky to design systems that work for everybody. everybody. everybody. uh I say everyone here not in a so I

[1:16:02] uh I say everyone here not in a so I uh I say everyone here not in a so I want to separate out everyone in terms want to separate out everyone in terms want to separate out everyone in terms of demographic bias of various kinds of demographic bias of various kinds of demographic bias of various kinds versus uh other kinds of uh say versus uh other kinds of uh say versus uh other kinds of uh say stakeholder groups and stakeholder stakeholder groups and stakeholder stakeholder groups and stakeholder settings um which should not be should settings um which should not be should settings um which should not be should be distinct from things like be distinct from things like be distinct from things like demographics and soic factors. Uh so for demographics and soic factors. Uh so for demographics and soic factors. Uh so for instance, is it an expert group? Is it a instance, is it an expert group? Is it a instance, is it an expert group? Is it a are these lay users? Um are there sort are these lay users? Um are there sort are these lay users? Um are there sort of use case specific things like of use case specific things like of use case specific things like teachers and education settings, parents teachers and education settings, parents teachers and education settings, parents who are trying to engage somehow with who are trying to engage somehow with who are trying to engage somehow with the tool, students who are trying to the tool, students who are trying to the tool, students who are trying to learn something. Um so the target group

[1:16:34] learn something. Um so the target group learn something. Um so the target group will make often a big difference or big will make often a big difference or big will make often a big difference or big impact in uh how you think about the impact in uh how you think about the impact in uh how you think about the evaluation process. Again, more details evaluation process. Again, more details evaluation process. Again, more details in the reference material. in the reference material. in the reference material. Okay. Finally, I said finally, but I was Okay. Finally, I said finally, but I was Okay. Finally, I said finally, but I was wrong. This is the actual finally. um is wrong. This is the actual finally. um is wrong. This is the actual finally. um is uh when to evaluate I forgot there were uh when to evaluate I forgot there were uh when to evaluate I forgot there were five things um so you know different five things um so you know different five things um so you know different time scales there's instant evaluation time scales there's instant evaluation time scales there's instant evaluation at the time of interaction there's some at the time of interaction there's some at the time of interaction there's some kind of short-term interaction so you kind of short-term interaction so you kind of short-term interaction so you look a few rounds of things there's

[1:17:04] look a few rounds of things there's look a few rounds of things there's long-term you try to build a tool deploy long-term you try to build a tool deploy long-term you try to build a tool deploy it for some say a week or even longer uh it for some say a week or even longer uh it for some say a week or even longer uh there you know tools you can try to there you know tools you can try to there you know tools you can try to implement and deploy it for weeks months implement and deploy it for weeks months implement and deploy it for weeks months years see what impact they might have so years see what impact they might have so years see what impact they might have so you do longitudinal studies you do longitudinal studies you do longitudinal studies again some important design decisions again some important design decisions again some important design decisions that need to be made when one is uh that need to be made when one is uh that need to be made when one is uh trying to build evaluation tools for trying to build evaluation tools for trying to build evaluation tools for human computer interface in our case human computer interface in our case human computer interface in our case specifically human AI interface uh specifically human AI interface uh specifically human AI interface uh design problems. design problems. design problems. Okay, so let me summarize. Okay, so let me summarize. Okay, so let me summarize. So we talked today about uh sort of

[1:17:37] So we talked today about uh sort of So we talked today about uh sort of human AI interactions and think about human AI interactions and think about human AI interactions and think about the design decisions tied to this both the design decisions tied to this both the design decisions tied to this both uh some of the motivation foundations uh some of the motivation foundations uh some of the motivation foundations work in hi that deals with this work in hi that deals with this work in hi that deals with this implications of this kind of work uh and implications of this kind of work uh and implications of this kind of work uh and some of the ideas and how to implement some of the ideas and how to implement some of the ideas and how to implement this. Um and arguably the goal is that this. Um and arguably the goal is that this. Um and arguably the goal is that if one does this well then you can if one does this well then you can if one does this well then you can harness various kinds of AI techniques harness various kinds of AI techniques harness various kinds of AI techniques uh in ways that actually solve people's uh in ways that actually solve people's uh in ways that actually solve people's problems and respect people's needs, problems and respect people's needs, problems and respect people's needs, goals and values in real world contexts.

[1:18:09] goals and values in real world contexts. goals and values in real world contexts. U we talk through a few different U we talk through a few different U we talk through a few different perspectives. One on enabling humani perspectives. One on enabling humani perspectives. One on enabling humani interactions. So things like various interactions. So things like various interactions. So things like various ways that you can help AI tools uh ways that you can help AI tools uh ways that you can help AI tools uh continue to learn from interactions, continue to learn from interactions, continue to learn from interactions, things like preferences, things like preferences, things like preferences, uh interaction settings that maybe help uh interaction settings that maybe help uh interaction settings that maybe help to uh the tool be more personalized, for to uh the tool be more personalized, for to uh the tool be more personalized, for instance, things like social choice as instance, things like social choice as instance, things like social choice as an alternative to hypersonalization, an alternative to hypersonalization, an alternative to hypersonalization, calling back some of our tooling from calling back some of our tooling from calling back some of our tooling from the class so far. um and various ways to

[1:18:39] the class so far. um and various ways to the class so far. um and various ways to do the analysis uh and uh what impact it do the analysis uh and uh what impact it do the analysis uh and uh what impact it might have on decisions for different might have on decisions for different might have on decisions for different stakeholders. Um we then talked about stakeholders. Um we then talked about stakeholders. Um we then talked about evaluation. So evaluation. So evaluation. So uh this is thinking about this mapping uh this is thinking about this mapping uh this is thinking about this mapping between use cases the user various kinds between use cases the user various kinds between use cases the user various kinds of evaluation mechanisms uh things like of evaluation mechanisms uh things like of evaluation mechanisms uh things like um sort of different lengths of the um sort of different lengths of the um sort of different lengths of the evaluation process uh qualitative versus evaluation process uh qualitative versus evaluation process uh qualitative versus quantitative evaluation. The other quantitative evaluation. The other quantitative evaluation. The other questions are part of the design questions are part of the design questions are part of the design decision and now the design of the decision and now the design of the decision and now the design of the evaluation. So evaluation itself becomes

[1:19:11] evaluation. So evaluation itself becomes evaluation. So evaluation itself becomes a design problem of picking design setup a design problem of picking design setup a design problem of picking design setup for the evaluation that best best for the evaluation that best best for the evaluation that best best matches what you're actually trying to matches what you're actually trying to matches what you're actually trying to build what was best fit for the context. build what was best fit for the context. build what was best fit for the context. Okay. So that's that on what I wanted to Okay. So that's that on what I wanted to Okay. So that's that on what I wanted to cover. We're about a time.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=VffFArrRSBE
