# Transcript: Stanford CS329H: Machine Learning from Human Preferences | Autumn 2024 | Mechanism Design

Source video: https://www.youtube.com/watch?v=zkHTbb-0Gns
Language: en (auto-generated) · Duration: 1:21:40 · Words: 39946
Other available languages: en-US (en-US)
To request a specific language: https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript/zkHTbb-0Gns.txt?lang=LANG_CODE
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=zkHTbb-0Gns

## Transcript
[0:09] Um so the goal today is to cover Um so the goal today is to cover uh mechanism design as one of the tools uh mechanism design as one of the tools uh mechanism design as one of the tools that uh sort of another interesting tool that uh sort of another interesting tool that uh sort of another interesting tool at least from my point of view. at least from my point of view. at least from my point of view. It's combination of some of the ideas we It's combination of some of the ideas we It's combination of some of the ideas we covered already and things like social covered already and things like social covered already and things like social choice and voting and things like that choice and voting and things like that choice and voting and things like that um with some ideas from game theory um with some ideas from game theory um with some ideas from game theory which we alluded to at the end of some which we alluded to at the end of some which we alluded to at the end of some of the voting lectures uh but connects of the voting lectures uh but connects of the voting lectures uh but connects to both social choice and game theory. to both social choice and game theory. to both social choice and game theory. We'll try to make clear what those We'll try to make clear what those We'll try to make clear what those connections are. Uh building off of at

[0:39] connections are. Uh building off of at connections are. Uh building off of at some point some of the work we talk some point some of the work we talk some point some of the work we talk about today will build off of what we've about today will build off of what we've about today will build off of what we've worked on earlier. worked on earlier. worked on earlier. I should definitely not use this. Uh I should definitely not use this. Uh I should definitely not use this. Uh what we've worked on earlier tied to what we've worked on earlier tied to what we've worked on earlier tied to uh asking questions about bandits, uh asking questions about bandits, uh asking questions about bandits, preference modeling, preference preference modeling, preference preference modeling, preference optimization. We'll we'll think of optimization. We'll we'll think of optimization. We'll we'll think of similar ideas but now in a uh strategic similar ideas but now in a uh strategic similar ideas but now in a uh strategic or game theoretic setting with actors or game theoretic setting with actors or game theoretic setting with actors that may be adversarial or may be that may be adversarial or may be that may be adversarial or may be physicious in various ways. And so physicious in various ways. And so physicious in various ways. And so hopefully some of this frame will be

[1:09] hopefully some of this frame will be hopefully some of this frame will be clear by the end of lecture today. Um so clear by the end of lecture today. Um so clear by the end of lecture today. Um so in terms of a bit of frame setting uh in terms of a bit of frame setting uh in terms of a bit of frame setting uh for those of you who haven't seen for those of you who haven't seen for those of you who haven't seen mechanism design before so um one of the mechanism design before so um one of the mechanism design before so um one of the definitions or some of how the field definitions or some of how the field definitions or some of how the field defines itself is in terms of the defines itself is in terms of the defines itself is in terms of the science of rule making. Um so thinking science of rule making. Um so thinking science of rule making. Um so thinking about this as how one can design rules about this as how one can design rules about this as how one can design rules such that you get uh such that you get uh such that you get uh design rules such that even if uh

[1:39] design rules such that even if uh design rules such that even if uh participants choose to be strategic participants choose to be strategic participants choose to be strategic strategic meaning that uh strategic meaning that uh strategic meaning that uh the way that they engage in the system the way that they engage in the system the way that they engage in the system uh could include for instance being uh could include for instance being uh could include for instance being adversarial or being like self uh adversarial or being like self uh adversarial or being like self uh targeting their own preferences or it's targeting their own preferences or it's targeting their own preferences or it's like whatever ever way that they choose like whatever ever way that they choose like whatever ever way that they choose to engage uh the overall ecosystem still to engage uh the overall ecosystem still to engage uh the overall ecosystem still uh sort of worked correctly to lead to uh sort of worked correctly to lead to uh sort of worked correctly to lead to some desirable outcome which is a social some desirable outcome which is a social some desirable outcome which is a social choice kind of setting. Just like in

[2:09] choice kind of setting. Just like in choice kind of setting. Just like in social choice uh part of the role of the social choice uh part of the role of the social choice uh part of the role of the designer is to decide what desirable designer is to decide what desirable designer is to decide what desirable outcome is and uh beyond that then the outcome is and uh beyond that then the outcome is and uh beyond that then the job is to figure out what are the job is to figure out what are the job is to figure out what are the interventions that one can uh or how can interventions that one can uh or how can interventions that one can uh or how can one decide the rules of the game if you one decide the rules of the game if you one decide the rules of the game if you like or the rules of the interaction like or the rules of the interaction like or the rules of the interaction such that you get at that uh desirable such that you get at that uh desirable such that you get at that uh desirable outcome even if the actors in that outcome even if the actors in that outcome even if the actors in that outcome choose to be adversarial or outcome choose to be adversarial or outcome choose to be adversarial or strategic in various ways that that's strategic in various ways that that's strategic in various ways that that's sort of the broad training of what this sort of the broad training of what this sort of the broad training of what this field tries to answer. So I'll try to

[2:39] field tries to answer. So I'll try to field tries to answer. So I'll try to make this a bit clearer maybe grounding make this a bit clearer maybe grounding make this a bit clearer maybe grounding examples as we go through. Um it's it examples as we go through. Um it's it examples as we go through. Um it's it has it borrows from a bunch of different has it borrows from a bunch of different has it borrows from a bunch of different uh uh uh I guess fields of study. So um I guess fields of study. So um I guess fields of study. So um traditionally mostly studied in traditionally mostly studied in traditionally mostly studied in economics uh borrows a bunch from game economics uh borrows a bunch from game economics uh borrows a bunch from game theory ideas. uh theory ideas. uh theory ideas. uh I don't know the actual length of time I don't know the actual length of time I don't know the actual length of time but I want to say but I want to say but I want to say definitely in recent memory uh roughly

[3:10] definitely in recent memory uh roughly definitely in recent memory uh roughly aligned with when sort of large internet aligned with when sort of large internet aligned with when sort of large internet companies became a thing uh it ended up companies became a thing uh it ended up companies became a thing uh it ended up being extremely useful for real world uh being extremely useful for real world uh being extremely useful for real world uh sort of computing tasks and so it became sort of computing tasks and so it became sort of computing tasks and so it became a topic that was studied more and more a topic that was studied more and more a topic that was studied more and more in computing literature and so um we'll in computing literature and so um we'll in computing literature and so um we'll touch on some of these today but this touch on some of these today but this touch on some of these today but this include you know things like what came include you know things like what came include you know things like what came up with social choice the notions of up with social choice the notions of up with social choice the notions of computational complexity but also computational complexity but also computational complexity but also interesting questions of if a machine interesting questions of if a machine interesting questions of if a machine learning model is part of the mechanism learning model is part of the mechanism learning model is part of the mechanism how do I think about its learning how do I think about its learning how do I think about its learning process within the mechanism again process within the mechanism again process within the mechanism again hopefully some of this will be clear

[3:40] hopefully some of this will be clear hopefully some of this will be clear clearer over the course of lecture today clearer over the course of lecture today clearer over the course of lecture today um so I'll talk through some of the um so I'll talk through some of the um so I'll talk through some of the reward impact but I think one of the reward impact but I think one of the reward impact but I think one of the uh clearest successes and actually one uh clearest successes and actually one uh clearest successes and actually one of the ideas we'll we'll spend the most of the ideas we'll we'll spend the most of the ideas we'll we'll spend the most time on today uh are things like time on today uh are things like time on today uh are things like auctions and various kinds of pricing auctions and various kinds of pricing auctions and various kinds of pricing and economic decision decision making and economic decision decision making and economic decision decision making where um there's been a ton of impact of where um there's been a ton of impact of where um there's been a ton of impact of both designing mechanisms of studying both designing mechanisms of studying both designing mechanisms of studying their properties and various kinds of their properties and various kinds of their properties and various kinds of reward context. So I'm showing here an reward context. So I'm showing here an reward context. So I'm showing here an example of an auction as literal auction

[4:10] example of an auction as literal auction example of an auction as literal auction to give maybe a flavor of some of what to give maybe a flavor of some of what to give maybe a flavor of some of what we'll discuss over the next few minutes. we'll discuss over the next few minutes. we'll discuss over the next few minutes. Um so I'll start off with you know some Um so I'll start off with you know some Um so I'll start off with you know some of the existing examples of where of the existing examples of where of the existing examples of where mechanism design ideas auction ideas mechanism design ideas auction ideas mechanism design ideas auction ideas have had impact. So the examples from have had impact. So the examples from have had impact. So the examples from things like uh when there was uh bidding things like uh when there was uh bidding things like uh when there was uh bidding auction process for um when some of the auction process for um when some of the auction process for um when some of the spectrum for radio waves was was uh the

[4:41] spectrum for radio waves was was uh the spectrum for radio waves was was uh the regulation change. um does a bunch of regulation change. um does a bunch of regulation change. um does a bunch of work that used ideas mechanism design to work that used ideas mechanism design to work that used ideas mechanism design to sort of set up a bidding process such sort of set up a bidding process such sort of set up a bidding process such that um even if the actors in fact that um even if the actors in fact that um even if the actors in fact clearly the actors were self-interested clearly the actors were self-interested clearly the actors were self-interested right they want to maximize profit for right they want to maximize profit for right they want to maximize profit for whatever u yet you want to set up a whatever u yet you want to set up a whatever u yet you want to set up a process such that um you're likely to process such that um you're likely to process such that um you're likely to get good outcomes so again framing what get good outcomes so again framing what get good outcomes so again framing what mechanism design tries to do um so these mechanism design tries to do um so these mechanism design tries to do um so these are good references if you're interested are good references if you're interested are good references if you're interested in some of the history um these kinds of in some of the history um these kinds of in some of the history um these kinds of ideas and particularly things like

[5:12] ideas and particularly things like ideas and particularly things like auctions and pricing are used a ton in auctions and pricing are used a ton in auctions and pricing are used a ton in lots of web companies. So allude to the lots of web companies. So allude to the lots of web companies. So allude to the example I gave earlier things like example I gave earlier things like example I gave earlier things like Amazon uh deciding sort of pricing and Amazon uh deciding sort of pricing and Amazon uh deciding sort of pricing and ordering of items and things like that. ordering of items and things like that. ordering of items and things like that. Um a lot of the big web search companies Um a lot of the big web search companies Um a lot of the big web search companies use ideas borrowed from this literature. use ideas borrowed from this literature. use ideas borrowed from this literature. Um so Google uses this as one of the Um so Google uses this as one of the Um so Google uses this as one of the things that powers um the ad buying things that powers um the ad buying things that powers um the ad buying process behind search. Um and I I like process behind search. Um and I I like process behind search. Um and I I like these numbers. I'm borrowing this from

[5:43] these numbers. I'm borrowing this from these numbers. I'm borrowing this from colleague who gave this talk initially. colleague who gave this talk initially. colleague who gave this talk initially. Um the reference is at the end. Um but Um the reference is at the end. Um but Um the reference is at the end. Um but uh you know in 2016 uh you know in 2016 uh you know in 2016 Google had a $79 billion revenue in ads. Google had a $79 billion revenue in ads. Google had a $79 billion revenue in ads. Total revenue was 89.6 you know 79. some Total revenue was 89.6 you know 79. some Total revenue was 89.6 you know 79. some like definitely the vast majority of like definitely the vast majority of like definitely the vast majority of their revenue was tied to uh ads and their revenue was tied to uh ads and their revenue was tied to uh ads and this this technology powered by again this this technology powered by again this this technology powered by again sort of auction processes and bidding sort of auction processes and bidding sort of auction processes and bidding process and things like that. uh process and things like that. uh process and things like that. uh Facebook similarly uh I think uh again

[6:13] Facebook similarly uh I think uh again Facebook similarly uh I think uh again ad revenue in 2016 ad revenue in 2016 ad revenue in 2016 everything else is running error everything else is running error everything else is running error compared to like what was tied to ad compared to like what was tied to ad compared to like what was tied to ad revenue and what powers the ad process revenue and what powers the ad process revenue and what powers the ad process are auction kind of ideas that come from are auction kind of ideas that come from are auction kind of ideas that come from mechanism design uh many of them mechanism design uh many of them mechanism design uh many of them directly borrowing some of them small directly borrowing some of them small directly borrowing some of them small adjustments again we we'll get to some adjustments again we we'll get to some adjustments again we we'll get to some of this over the course of the lecture of this over the course of the lecture of this over the course of the lecture today so the main point being made here today so the main point being made here today so the main point being made here is that this is an area that over is that this is an area that over is that this is an area that over particularly in recent times has had a particularly in recent times has had a particularly in recent times has had a huge impact on uh society generally

[6:46] huge impact on uh society generally huge impact on uh society generally because the tools that it brings have because the tools that it brings have because the tools that it brings have now been used for lots of pricing kinds now been used for lots of pricing kinds now been used for lots of pricing kinds of decisions, auctions, collective of decisions, auctions, collective of decisions, auctions, collective decision-m of various kinds. Okay. So decision-m of various kinds. Okay. So decision-m of various kinds. Okay. So for our purposes and maybe to be more for our purposes and maybe to be more for our purposes and maybe to be more direct um the key question uh or one direct um the key question uh or one direct um the key question uh or one question that you might be interested in question that you might be interested in question that you might be interested in asking that may uh lead you to using asking that may uh lead you to using asking that may uh lead you to using some of these tools are questions like some of these tools are questions like some of these tools are questions like you know can we infer bias true true you know can we infer bias true true you know can we infer bias true true economic preferences and economic economic preferences and economic economic preferences and economic preferences I'm thinking here of as like

[7:16] preferences I'm thinking here of as like preferences I'm thinking here of as like you know what actual value or price do you know what actual value or price do you know what actual value or price do um different stakeholders have in this um different stakeholders have in this um different stakeholders have in this case buyers have for certain items they case buyers have for certain items they case buyers have for certain items they may be looking to sell. Um, and so if may be looking to sell. Um, and so if may be looking to sell. Um, and so if this is a setting that you're in and this is a setting that you're in and this is a setting that you're in and you're going to use a mechanism, um, you're going to use a mechanism, um, you're going to use a mechanism, um, then the mechanism needs to decide which then the mechanism needs to decide which then the mechanism needs to decide which buyers receive what items and then how buyers receive what items and then how buyers receive what items and then how much they pay for each one of these much they pay for each one of these much they pay for each one of these items. And the goal under the hood is to items. And the goal under the hood is to items. And the goal under the hood is to do it in such a way that um, do it in such a way that um, do it in such a way that um, uh, again, you know, you could define a

[7:47] uh, again, you know, you could define a uh, again, you know, you could define a society desirable outcome. Often in society desirable outcome. Often in society desirable outcome. Often in these settings, a society desirable these settings, a society desirable these settings, a society desirable outcome is that um outcome is that um outcome is that um the amount paid is commensurate with the the amount paid is commensurate with the the amount paid is commensurate with the value or back to items for individuals value or back to items for individuals value or back to items for individuals and uh like a economically good outcome and uh like a economically good outcome and uh like a economically good outcome might be whoever values the item the might be whoever values the item the might be whoever values the item the most actually gets to win a bid for that most actually gets to win a bid for that most actually gets to win a bid for that item if they bid their true value for item if they bid their true value for item if they bid their true value for that item. So, for example, in a coffee that item. So, for example, in a coffee that item. So, for example, in a coffee shop setting, an item could be coffee,

[8:17] shop setting, an item could be coffee, shop setting, an item could be coffee, cupcake, or coffee and cupcake. And we cupcake, or coffee and cupcake. And we cupcake, or coffee and cupcake. And we have two potential buyers who have have two potential buyers who have have two potential buyers who have different prices for like what they what different prices for like what they what different prices for like what they what they think a coffee is worth, cupcake is they think a coffee is worth, cupcake is they think a coffee is worth, cupcake is worth, meaning how might they be willing worth, meaning how might they be willing worth, meaning how might they be willing to pay, right? Uh and uh or the to pay, right? Uh and uh or the to pay, right? Uh and uh or the combination of coffee and cupcake. And combination of coffee and cupcake. And combination of coffee and cupcake. And the task might be or the task here the the task might be or the task here the the task might be or the task here the mechanisms task is to figure out uh how mechanisms task is to figure out uh how mechanisms task is to figure out uh how do I design um the interaction system do I design um the interaction system do I design um the interaction system such that you know uh for instance if such that you know uh for instance if such that you know uh for instance if you're comparing

[8:47] you're comparing you're comparing uh just the cupcake the individual who uh just the cupcake the individual who uh just the cupcake the individual who values cupcake the most might win the values cupcake the most might win the values cupcake the most might win the bid and it's worth stating that bid and it's worth stating that bid and it's worth stating that individuals or buyers here have individuals or buyers here have individuals or buyers here have incentive to be strategic right so they incentive to be strategic right so they incentive to be strategic right so they want the item but they also want to pay want the item but they also want to pay want the item but they also want to pay as little as they as little as they as little as they uh as they can, right? So there's this uh as they can, right? So there's this uh as they can, right? So there's this tension of uh you know, if you like tension of uh you know, if you like tension of uh you know, if you like trying to game the system in some sense trying to game the system in some sense trying to game the system in some sense and pay as little as possible, but also and pay as little as possible, but also and pay as little as possible, but also having some intrinsic value for uh the having some intrinsic value for uh the having some intrinsic value for uh the set of items that are being sold here.

[9:18] set of items that are being sold here. set of items that are being sold here. Does this make sense as a general Does this make sense as a general Does this make sense as a general framing? Just Yes, please. framing? Just Yes, please. framing? Just Yes, please. &gt;&gt; So uh in here like this example, the &gt;&gt; So uh in here like this example, the &gt;&gt; So uh in here like this example, the cupcake one cupcake one cupcake one person is willing to pay $3 to the other person is willing to pay $3 to the other person is willing to pay $3 to the other $2. So as like we think okay $2 is the $2. So as like we think okay $2 is the $2. So as like we think okay $2 is the price we are kind of exploiting that one price we are kind of exploiting that one price we are kind of exploiting that one person to give as max like that is person to give as max like that is person to give as max like that is three. So in like a social setup that three. So in like a social setup that three. So in like a social setup that &gt;&gt; like is that a good outcome &gt;&gt; like is that a good outcome &gt;&gt; like is that a good outcome &gt;&gt; take prices too but we are just &gt;&gt; take prices too but we are just &gt;&gt; take prices too but we are just exploiting that how much a user is

[9:49] exploiting that how much a user is exploiting that how much a user is willing to pay and then go till three is willing to pay and then go till three is willing to pay and then go till three is that like that like that like &gt;&gt; I think that's an interesting so so &gt;&gt; I think that's an interesting so so &gt;&gt; I think that's an interesting so so maybe at a very high level you know it's maybe at a very high level you know it's maybe at a very high level you know it's up to the designer to decide what a up to the designer to decide what a up to the designer to decide what a socially valuable outcome is I think socially valuable outcome is I think socially valuable outcome is I think many of the framings of this problem use many of the framings of this problem use many of the framings of this problem use maximal revenue essentially maximal revenue essentially maximal revenue essentially &gt;&gt; as the desirable outcome and so in that &gt;&gt; as the desirable outcome and so in that &gt;&gt; as the desirable outcome and so in that setting then just maxim izing the price setting then just maxim izing the price setting then just maxim izing the price paid would be the thing you're aiming paid would be the thing you're aiming paid would be the thing you're aiming for. I think at a you know very very for. I think at a you know very very for. I think at a you know very very high level like somewhat beyond the high level like somewhat beyond the high level like somewhat beyond the scope of this class a lot of what we

[10:20] scope of this class a lot of what we scope of this class a lot of what we said from social choice also applies said from social choice also applies said from social choice also applies here as a designer it's part of your go here as a designer it's part of your go here as a designer it's part of your go your job is to decide what the desirable your job is to decide what the desirable your job is to decide what the desirable outcome is and so you could decide to outcome is and so you could decide to outcome is and so you could decide to design a mech mechanism such that you design a mech mechanism such that you design a mech mechanism such that you get at different goals than maximizing get at different goals than maximizing get at different goals than maximizing revenue that said revenue that said revenue that said most of we'll engage a bit u most of the most of we'll engage a bit u most of the most of we'll engage a bit u most of the things we'll talk about today most of it things we'll talk about today most of it things we'll talk about today most of it will engage with strategic behavior of will engage with strategic behavior of will engage with strategic behavior of the actors and how we can make sure we the actors and how we can make sure we the actors and how we can make sure we avoid being uh fooled by strategic

[10:50] avoid being uh fooled by strategic avoid being uh fooled by strategic behavior. But I think it will be framed behavior. But I think it will be framed behavior. But I think it will be framed around maximizing revenue as societal around maximizing revenue as societal around maximizing revenue as societal good. Uh there are other notions of this good. Uh there are other notions of this good. Uh there are other notions of this that tie to things like welfare which is that tie to things like welfare which is that tie to things like welfare which is not that different sort of some not that different sort of some not that different sort of some difference of cost and uh revenue. Um difference of cost and uh revenue. Um difference of cost and uh revenue. Um again at the 10,000 foot view um a again at the 10,000 foot view um a again at the 10,000 foot view um a designer could pick a different social designer could pick a different social designer could pick a different social outcome as like what they consider outcome as like what they consider outcome as like what they consider social good and for that outcome design social good and for that outcome design social good and for that outcome design a mechanism to get at it. So if you like a mechanism to get at it. So if you like a mechanism to get at it. So if you like this flexibility in design there but I this flexibility in design there but I this flexibility in design there but I think in practice and maybe not

[11:20] think in practice and maybe not think in practice and maybe not surprisingly for say economic folks it's surprisingly for say economic folks it's surprisingly for say economic folks it's maybe not not super kind of obvious that maybe not not super kind of obvious that maybe not not super kind of obvious that they might think of revenue maximization they might think of revenue maximization they might think of revenue maximization as a a good outcome. And I mean, we're as a a good outcome. And I mean, we're as a a good outcome. And I mean, we're not going deep into this, but there are not going deep into this, but there are not going deep into this, but there are philosophical arguments for why people philosophical arguments for why people philosophical arguments for why people might think, you know, uh, capitalist might think, you know, uh, capitalist might think, you know, uh, capitalist style revenue maximization is like a style revenue maximization is like a style revenue maximization is like a good way to design markets, good way to good way to design markets, good way to good way to design markets, good way to design a bunch of other stuff. So, uh, design a bunch of other stuff. So, uh, design a bunch of other stuff. So, uh, we won't go into that very much. We'll we won't go into that very much. We'll we won't go into that very much. We'll take we'll borrow a lot from the take we'll borrow a lot from the take we'll borrow a lot from the literature. I know I'm maybe spending literature. I know I'm maybe spending literature. I know I'm maybe spending too much time on this, but I I guess too much time on this, but I I guess too much time on this, but I I guess I'll say at a high level that, you know,

[11:51] I'll say at a high level that, you know, I'll say at a high level that, you know, uh, there is there are avenues to think uh, there is there are avenues to think uh, there is there are avenues to think of other good outcomes and design for of other good outcomes and design for of other good outcomes and design for those. It's a good question. Thank you those. It's a good question. Thank you those. It's a good question. Thank you for asking. Okay, other thoughts. Okay. Uh hopefully it's also clear how Okay. Uh hopefully it's also clear how this ties to preferences because again this ties to preferences because again this ties to preferences because again uh if you think of preferences as being uh if you think of preferences as being uh if you think of preferences as being economic or can be economically priced economic or can be economically priced economic or can be economically priced or judged or valued then uh premises are or judged or valued then uh premises are or judged or valued then uh premises are now grounded here as like prices people now grounded here as like prices people now grounded here as like prices people are willing to pay for certain items. Um

[12:21] are willing to pay for certain items. Um are willing to pay for certain items. Um so you know it's maybe incomplete in the so you know it's maybe incomplete in the so you know it's maybe incomplete in the frame of the whole frame of this class. frame of the whole frame of this class. frame of the whole frame of this class. We've talked about lots of different We've talked about lots of different We've talked about lots of different kinds of preferences and many that not kinds of preferences and many that not kinds of preferences and many that not as don't seem as obviously quantifiable as don't seem as obviously quantifiable as don't seem as obviously quantifiable economically. Uh but for economically. Uh but for economically. Uh but for uh most of what we covered today and for uh most of what we covered today and for uh most of what we covered today and for many applications and particularly when many applications and particularly when many applications and particularly when you can ground things economically this you can ground things economically this you can ground things economically this approach can be very useful though it's approach can be very useful though it's approach can be very useful though it's you know it's a bit more general but I you know it's a bit more general but I you know it's a bit more general but I think this is the easiest way to have think this is the easiest way to have think this is the easiest way to have the discussion. So I think we're mostly

[12:51] the discussion. So I think we're mostly the discussion. So I think we're mostly so I guess I should also say that this so I guess I should also say that this so I guess I should also say that this is you know this is a topic it's like is you know this is a topic it's like is you know this is a topic it's like almost like everything else we've almost like everything else we've almost like everything else we've covered it's an entire field right and covered it's an entire field right and covered it's an entire field right and even here there are entire classes on it even here there are entire classes on it even here there are entire classes on it and I'm only touching the surface of of and I'm only touching the surface of of and I'm only touching the surface of of the material so uh I'm hoping to inform the material so uh I'm hoping to inform the material so uh I'm hoping to inform on particularly folks who haven't are on particularly folks who haven't are on particularly folks who haven't are not aware on how this might be not aware on how this might be not aware on how this might be interesting how it informs our questions interesting how it informs our questions interesting how it informs our questions of uh eliciting preferences and social of uh eliciting preferences and social of uh eliciting preferences and social choice kinds of questions and then if choice kinds of questions and then if choice kinds of questions and then if people are interested like I'll have people are interested like I'll have people are interested like I'll have references so you can dig more deeply

[13:22] references so you can dig more deeply references so you can dig more deeply and and think through some further and and think through some further and and think through some further stuff. Okay, so uh you know this is the Okay, so uh you know this is the framing, this is the setting. Um there a framing, this is the setting. Um there a framing, this is the setting. Um there a bunch of stuff you could do. Um there's bunch of stuff you could do. Um there's bunch of stuff you could do. Um there's a very very obvious standard thing that a very very obvious standard thing that a very very obvious standard thing that you could do to sort of decide on how you could do to sort of decide on how you could do to sort of decide on how you might uh do the thing that the you might uh do the thing that the you might uh do the thing that the mechanism has to do which is which mechanism has to do which is which mechanism has to do which is which buyers receive items versus andor what buyers receive items versus andor what buyers receive items versus andor what they pay. Um, they pay. Um, they pay. Um, I guess throwing out loud uh thoughts on

[13:54] I guess throwing out loud uh thoughts on I guess throwing out loud uh thoughts on how you might decide on how you might decide on how you might decide on uh I guess how to sell items to these uh I guess how to sell items to these uh I guess how to sell items to these people. Assuming these are the people, people. Assuming these are the people, people. Assuming these are the people, these are your buyers. You're the these are your buyers. You're the these are your buyers. You're the designer. Let's say you're going with I designer. Let's say you're going with I designer. Let's say you're going with I want to maximize revenue for now. want to maximize revenue for now. want to maximize revenue for now. uh what might be some ways that you uh what might be some ways that you uh what might be some ways that you might decide on um might decide on um might decide on um I guess what mechanism might you design I guess what mechanism might you design I guess what mechanism might you design such that people can engage in this such that people can engage in this such that people can engage in this activity

[14:25] there's a obvious non-interesting well there's a obvious non-interesting well obvious one which is what happens in obvious one which is what happens in obvious one which is what happens in most places that are not auctions which most places that are not auctions which most places that are not auctions which is you know you post some price and is you know you post some price and is you know you post some price and people just sort of decide or not to buy people just sort of decide or not to buy people just sort of decide or not to buy the items uh based on their value Um uh the items uh based on their value Um uh the items uh based on their value Um uh often we think about this as an often we think about this as an often we think about this as an individual level this might be thinking individual level this might be thinking individual level this might be thinking about this as utility. So you know post about this as utility. So you know post about this as utility. So you know post this price might be I choose 150 for the this price might be I choose 150 for the this price might be I choose 150 for the coffee 350 for the um cupcake and I coffee 350 for the um cupcake and I coffee 350 for the um cupcake and I maybe price this individually. So the maybe price this individually. So the maybe price this individually. So the combination is just the sum of the cost combination is just the sum of the cost combination is just the sum of the cost whereas for an individual

[14:57] whereas for an individual whereas for an individual uh uh uh the price or their value for coffee and the price or their value for coffee and the price or their value for coffee and uh uh cupcakes together is actually uh uh cupcakes together is actually uh uh cupcakes together is actually different from separately. You can think different from separately. You can think different from separately. You can think about this might happen easily for lots about this might happen easily for lots about this might happen easily for lots of different kinds of uh economic of different kinds of uh economic of different kinds of uh economic decision-m decision-m decision-m um and so in this setting um the um and so in this setting um the um and so in this setting um the individual you know I think 350 plus 150 individual you know I think 350 plus 150 individual you know I think 350 plus 150 is less than six so they'll probably buy is less than six so they'll probably buy is less than six so they'll probably buy to them they've increased their utility to them they've increased their utility to them they've increased their utility right because they're willing to pay six

[15:27] right because they're willing to pay six right because they're willing to pay six uh your total price for the item is uh your total price for the item is uh your total price for the item is together is five so together is five so together is five so the price is less than uh their internal the price is less than uh their internal the price is less than uh their internal utility So the internal value and so the utility So the internal value and so the utility So the internal value and so the utility here would be 6 - 5 is one. utility here would be 6 - 5 is one. utility here would be 6 - 5 is one. That's sort of their win. Yes. That's sort of their win. Yes. That's sort of their win. Yes. &gt;&gt; So the price is an additive like I'm &gt;&gt; So the price is an additive like I'm &gt;&gt; So the price is an additive like I'm confused. confused. confused. &gt;&gt; That's a good question. So in this &gt;&gt; That's a good question. So in this &gt;&gt; That's a good question. So in this example and the framing more generally example and the framing more generally example and the framing more generally and I should also so I'll state this and I should also so I'll state this and I should also so I'll state this here and then I'll try to bridge this here and then I'll try to bridge this here and then I'll try to bridge this more generally. So um the setup allows

[15:59] more generally. So um the setup allows more generally. So um the setup allows for prices across sets of items that are for prices across sets of items that are for prices across sets of items that are not additive. And it seems to match lots not additive. And it seems to match lots not additive. And it seems to match lots of real world behavior where um people of real world behavior where um people of real world behavior where um people value sets of things differently than value sets of things differently than value sets of things differently than individual things maybe. So let me individual things maybe. So let me individual things maybe. So let me attempt a coffee cake. I mean you can attempt a coffee cake. I mean you can attempt a coffee cake. I mean you can imagine practically that this might be imagine practically that this might be imagine practically that this might be true like you situation where you true like you situation where you true like you situation where you actually need both and you're not happy actually need both and you're not happy actually need both and you're not happy with either and you might pick a place with either and you might pick a place with either and you might pick a place that you know will have both. You can that you know will have both. You can that you know will have both. You can imagine this is a real world decision-m imagine this is a real world decision-m imagine this is a real world decision-m um but uh the other resourcing things I

[16:30] um but uh the other resourcing things I um but uh the other resourcing things I don't know uh you're picking a class and don't know uh you're picking a class and don't know uh you're picking a class and you have to decide uh instructor you have to decide uh instructor you have to decide uh instructor who you might work with on a course who you might work with on a course who you might work with on a course project computing resources project computing resources project computing resources uh there's some pricing for each thing uh there's some pricing for each thing uh there's some pricing for each thing individually you can imagine there's individually you can imagine there's individually you can imagine there's some pricing for having actually those some pricing for having actually those some pricing for having actually those things jointly like at the right things jointly like at the right things jointly like at the right configuration of those things that's configuration of those things that's configuration of those things that's very different from each thing very different from each thing very different from each thing individually because you know each individually because you know each individually because you know each blocks each other a little bit and so blocks each other a little bit and so blocks each other a little bit and so you actually the right answer is a you actually the right answer is a you actually the right answer is a combination and you need to match your combination and you need to match your combination and you need to match your combination. So your pricing for getting combination. So your pricing for getting combination. So your pricing for getting the combination right is much higher

[17:00] the combination right is much higher the combination right is much higher than getting you know a good instru or than getting you know a good instru or than getting you know a good instru or instructor you like I don't know uh your instructor you like I don't know uh your instructor you like I don't know uh your friends taking a class and or a class friends taking a class and or a class friends taking a class and or a class offering promising that they give you 10 offering promising that they give you 10 offering promising that they give you 10 GPUs per student to do whatever you like GPUs per student to do whatever you like GPUs per student to do whatever you like each individually these make sense and each individually these make sense and each individually these make sense and you know for some decision makers single you know for some decision makers single you know for some decision makers single issue if you give me enough GPUs I don't issue if you give me enough GPUs I don't issue if you give me enough GPUs I don't care about the rest of it or my friends care about the rest of it or my friends care about the rest of it or my friends taking a class I don't care about the taking a class I don't care about the taking a class I don't care about the rest of it uh but I'd argue for many of rest of it uh but I'd argue for many of rest of it uh but I'd argue for many of us really the combination and so we're us really the combination and so we're us really the combination and so we're doing trade-offs across these things and doing trade-offs across these things and doing trade-offs across these things and the trade-offs may not be additive. So

[17:30] the trade-offs may not be additive. So the trade-offs may not be additive. So the combination might actually have a the combination might actually have a the combination might actually have a different value. So maybe just to frame different value. So maybe just to frame different value. So maybe just to frame your question, but more generally the your question, but more generally the your question, but more generally the framework allows for uh settings where framework allows for uh settings where framework allows for uh settings where combination is not necessarily additive combination is not necessarily additive combination is not necessarily additive in comp. It's a good question in comp. It's a good question in comp. It's a good question other thoughts or questions. other thoughts or questions. other thoughts or questions. Okay, so this is maybe the standard Okay, so this is maybe the standard Okay, so this is maybe the standard thing. This is what happens in most thing. This is what happens in most thing. This is what happens in most places. You know what you get at the end places. You know what you get at the end places. You know what you get at the end is that uh if if someone purchases your is that uh if if someone purchases your is that uh if if someone purchases your item at a certain price uh if you're item at a certain price uh if you're item at a certain price uh if you're thinking purely economically what you

[18:00] thinking purely economically what you thinking purely economically what you know is that uh their value must be know is that uh their value must be know is that uh their value must be higher than uh your stated price. So you higher than uh your stated price. So you higher than uh your stated price. So you learn at least that much like an learn at least that much like an learn at least that much like an ordering thing uh because otherwise ordering thing uh because otherwise ordering thing uh because otherwise under this model they will not buy your under this model they will not buy your under this model they will not buy your item right? It needs to be that they item right? It needs to be that they item right? It needs to be that they have positive utility. So you don't have positive utility. So you don't have positive utility. So you don't learn that much about individual learn that much about individual learn that much about individual preferences, but you learn some at least preferences, but you learn some at least preferences, but you learn some at least directional signal about how they value directional signal about how they value directional signal about how they value the thing that they bought. Does that the thing that they bought. Does that the thing that they bought. Does that make sense? Okay. Okay. So you might do make sense? Okay. Okay. So you might do make sense? Okay. Okay. So you might do something else. You might do an auction. something else. You might do an auction. something else. You might do an auction. So this is uh you have your item.

[18:33] So this is uh you have your item. So this is uh you have your item. Everyone gets the bid uh on the set of Everyone gets the bid uh on the set of Everyone gets the bid uh on the set of items and whoever has the winning bid uh items and whoever has the winning bid uh items and whoever has the winning bid uh sort of gets the item. So this is maybe sort of gets the item. So this is maybe sort of gets the item. So this is maybe uh a standard again to some extent uh a standard again to some extent uh a standard again to some extent thing. Um so you know to some extent you thing. Um so you know to some extent you thing. Um so you know to some extent you might imagine that if you deploy this might imagine that if you deploy this might imagine that if you deploy this you know you get maybe more signal about you know you get maybe more signal about you know you get maybe more signal about people's actual value for the item people's actual value for the item people's actual value for the item because you would imagine or hope that because you would imagine or hope that because you would imagine or hope that they would bid something correlated with they would bid something correlated with they would bid something correlated with how much they actually value the item.

[19:04] how much they actually value the item. how much they actually value the item. uh they might not and in fact actually uh they might not and in fact actually uh they might not and in fact actually oh this is a lot of the literature and oh this is a lot of the literature and oh this is a lot of the literature and engagement here is again engaging with engagement here is again engaging with engagement here is again engaging with uh you know what might individual buyers uh you know what might individual buyers uh you know what might individual buyers do in this setting and how might they do in this setting and how might they do in this setting and how might they try to gain this system uh any thoughts? try to gain this system uh any thoughts? try to gain this system uh any thoughts? So if you were bidding on an item in So if you were bidding on an item in So if you were bidding on an item in this class and six other people at least this class and six other people at least this class and six other people at least in person here and we all have chosen to in person here and we all have chosen to in person here and we all have chosen to buy the Mona Lisa uh for whatever reason buy the Mona Lisa uh for whatever reason buy the Mona Lisa uh for whatever reason and we can afford it also some of you

[19:34] and we can afford it also some of you and we can afford it also some of you might I cannot afford Mona Lisa but I might I cannot afford Mona Lisa but I might I cannot afford Mona Lisa but I don't think you can buy it you know do a don't think you can buy it you know do a don't think you can buy it you know do a standard bid uh standard auction standard bid uh standard auction standard bid uh standard auction thoughts on how one of you know if you thoughts on how one of you know if you thoughts on how one of you know if you wanted to be strategic and maybe uh get wanted to be strategic and maybe uh get wanted to be strategic and maybe uh get the item cheaper perhaps what might You the item cheaper perhaps what might You the item cheaper perhaps what might You do. Yeah. do. Yeah. do. Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, you you only bid like the &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, you you only bid like the &gt;&gt; Yeah. I mean, you you only bid like the minimum amount you have to uh talk. minimum amount you have to uh talk. minimum amount you have to uh talk. &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, you sort of figure out if you &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, you sort of figure out if you &gt;&gt; Yeah. So, you sort of figure out if you if you're the last person to bid in if you're the last person to bid in if you're the last person to bid in particular. So, you try to order particular. So, you try to order particular. So, you try to order information such that you get the most

[20:04] information such that you get the most information such that you get the most information, you get what everyone else information, you get what everyone else information, you get what everyone else is willing to bid, your actual value may is willing to bid, your actual value may is willing to bid, your actual value may be higher. If your value is higher than be higher. If your value is higher than be higher. If your value is higher than whatever's current maximum price, you whatever's current maximum price, you whatever's current maximum price, you just go a little bit above. You win a just go a little bit above. You win a just go a little bit above. You win a bid. you know that seems like a you know bid. you know that seems like a you know bid. you know that seems like a you know for the individual who is being for the individual who is being for the individual who is being strategic this seems a very reasonable strategic this seems a very reasonable strategic this seems a very reasonable thing to do. Uh so you know if you're thing to do. Uh so you know if you're thing to do. Uh so you know if you're thinking of social welfare as maximum thinking of social welfare as maximum thinking of social welfare as maximum revenue that's a bad outcome. If you're revenue that's a bad outcome. If you're revenue that's a bad outcome. If you're thinking of the like the goal of thinking of the like the goal of thinking of the like the goal of figuring out people's true utilities or

[20:34] figuring out people's true utilities or figuring out people's true utilities or value for things it's maybe not ideal as value for things it's maybe not ideal as value for things it's maybe not ideal as well because you know uh then people are well because you know uh then people are well because you know uh then people are incentivized not necessarily to bid uh incentivized not necessarily to bid uh incentivized not necessarily to bid uh their true value. They're incentivized their true value. They're incentivized their true value. They're incentivized to bid to win and winning is just to bid to win and winning is just to bid to win and winning is just different than like actually bidding different than like actually bidding different than like actually bidding what they value the item as. Any other what they value the item as. Any other what they value the item as. Any other thoughts on other strategic behavior thoughts on other strategic behavior thoughts on other strategic behavior that you could do? that you could do? that you could do? I think that's the obvious one, but I think that's the obvious one, but I think that's the obvious one, but there are others. there are others. there are others. Okay, I have you think about it. We I Okay, I have you think about it. We I Okay, I have you think about it. We I think we'll we'll get to it in some of think we'll we'll get to it in some of think we'll we'll get to it in some of the other discussion that we have. Um,

[21:05] the other discussion that we have. Um, the other discussion that we have. Um, another auction, one that you might have another auction, one that you might have another auction, one that you might have seen and is quite popular is a second seen and is quite popular is a second seen and is quite popular is a second price auction. Um, so what you do is price auction. Um, so what you do is price auction. Um, so what you do is everyone bids. Uh, this partially everyone bids. Uh, this partially everyone bids. Uh, this partially mitigates the strategy that you just mitigates the strategy that you just mitigates the strategy that you just talked about. Everyone bids. Um, talked about. Everyone bids. Um, talked about. Everyone bids. Um, uh, you get all the bids together, but uh, you get all the bids together, but uh, you get all the bids together, but the amount you pay is not the highest the amount you pay is not the highest the amount you pay is not the highest bid. You pay the second highest bid. Um, bid. You pay the second highest bid. Um, bid. You pay the second highest bid. Um, why might this be interesting? why might this be interesting? why might this be interesting? &gt;&gt; Like some sort of a tie.

[21:37] &gt;&gt; Like some sort of a tie. &gt;&gt; Like some sort of a tie. &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, &gt;&gt; Um, yeah. So a tie is interesting. I think that's a a tie is interesting. I think that's a little bit separate from this. Let's little bit separate from this. Let's little bit separate from this. Let's assume for discussion sake that each bid assume for discussion sake that each bid assume for discussion sake that each bid is unique. So you don't have ties. So is unique. So you don't have ties. So is unique. So you don't have ties. So you know you get to be what you like but you know you get to be what you like but you know you get to be what you like but you're not allowed just for making this you're not allowed just for making this you're not allowed just for making this discussion easy. You're not allowed to discussion easy. You're not allowed to discussion easy. You're not allowed to bid the exact same number as someone bid the exact same number as someone bid the exact same number as someone else. else. else. &gt;&gt; That's interesting because I could just &gt;&gt; That's interesting because I could just &gt;&gt; That's interesting because I could just bid like a million dollars. bid like a million dollars. bid like a million dollars. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; And nobody's gonna want to pay this. So,

[22:09] &gt;&gt; And nobody's gonna want to pay this. So, &gt;&gt; And nobody's gonna want to pay this. So, I got the correct. I got the correct. I got the correct. &gt;&gt; It's a way to like always there's a you &gt;&gt; It's a way to like always there's a you &gt;&gt; It's a way to like always there's a you can always win a bid by uh as long as can always win a bid by uh as long as can always win a bid by uh as long as you know that you know you're willing to you know that you know you're willing to you know that you know you're willing to pay the second price. Uh then you can pay the second price. Uh then you can pay the second price. Uh then you can bid some large numbers that you win the bid some large numbers that you win the bid some large numbers that you win the bid uh and you only get you only have to bid uh and you only get you only have to bid uh and you only get you only have to pay whatever the second price is. pay whatever the second price is. pay whatever the second price is. I mean, I guess the counter though, I mean, I guess the counter though, I mean, I guess the counter though, right, is like someone could get annoyed right, is like someone could get annoyed right, is like someone could get annoyed that you did that and then bid $999,000.

[22:40] &gt;&gt; Yeah. Again, everyone's strategic. Thank &gt;&gt; Yeah. Again, everyone's strategic. Thank you. Yes, exactly. This so the other you. Yes, exactly. This so the other you. Yes, exactly. This so the other actors uh someone sees particularly if actors uh someone sees particularly if actors uh someone sees particularly if say you're not the last person bidden. say you're not the last person bidden. say you're not the last person bidden. Again, we're making a simplistic version Again, we're making a simplistic version Again, we're making a simplistic version of like some ordering thing. Uh but of like some ordering thing. Uh but of like some ordering thing. Uh but yeah, exactly. yeah, exactly. yeah, exactly. uh someone can be adversarial against uh someone can be adversarial against uh someone can be adversarial against you and then now the second order the you and then now the second order the you and then now the second order the second highest bid is some really high second highest bid is some really high second highest bid is some really high number uh much much higher than your number uh much much higher than your number uh much much higher than your value is that clear is as a I guess a counter is that clear is as a I guess a counter strategy from some other actor who again

[23:11] strategy from some other actor who again strategy from some other actor who again their self-interest is to win the bid their self-interest is to win the bid their self-interest is to win the bid and other I guess other people lose the and other I guess other people lose the and other I guess other people lose the bid as the ideal outcome Um, you could also imagine I guess uh Um, you could also imagine I guess uh that could be a mismatch between what that could be a mismatch between what that could be a mismatch between what the seller thinks of the value for the the seller thinks of the value for the the seller thinks of the value for the item and uh the set of participants who item and uh the set of participants who item and uh the set of participants who are choosing to buy. And so uh one way are choosing to buy. And so uh one way are choosing to buy. And so uh one way to mitigate this issue still has to be to mitigate this issue still has to be to mitigate this issue still has to be useful for other things but one way to useful for other things but one way to useful for other things but one way to mitigate the issue of perhaps a value

[23:42] mitigate the issue of perhaps a value mitigate the issue of perhaps a value mismatch between all the buyers and the mismatch between all the buyers and the mismatch between all the buyers and the seller is to have a reserve price. So seller is to have a reserve price. So seller is to have a reserve price. So instead of you know second price wins uh instead of you know second price wins uh instead of you know second price wins uh there is a minimal price of selling there is a minimal price of selling there is a minimal price of selling right. So the seller has decided at right. So the seller has decided at right. So the seller has decided at least their sense of the value of the least their sense of the value of the least their sense of the value of the item and so unlike the generic second item and so unlike the generic second item and so unlike the generic second price uh the highest bidder wins if price uh the highest bidder wins if price uh the highest bidder wins if their bid is higher than whatever the their bid is higher than whatever the their bid is higher than whatever the reserve price is. So this avoids reserve price is. So this avoids reserve price is. So this avoids adversarial collusion that may for adversarial collusion that may for adversarial collusion that may for instance lead individuals to bid

[24:13] instance lead individuals to bid instance lead individuals to bid collectively too low or if their values collectively too low or if their values collectively too low or if their values just mismatch. So this allows avoiding just mismatch. So this allows avoiding just mismatch. So this allows avoiding that particular issue uh between the set that particular issue uh between the set that particular issue uh between the set of buyers and whoever is selling. Um and of buyers and whoever is selling. Um and of buyers and whoever is selling. Um and uh if their bid is uh if their bid is uh if their bid is sorry uh if the bid is high enough they sorry uh if the bid is high enough they sorry uh if the bid is high enough they win and the actual price that they pay win and the actual price that they pay win and the actual price that they pay is the maximum of the reserve price and is the maximum of the reserve price and is the maximum of the reserve price and the second price. So if the second price the second price. So if the second price the second price. So if the second price is higher uh they win they pay the is higher uh they win they pay the is higher uh they win they pay the second price if the reserve price higher second price if the reserve price higher second price if the reserve price higher they pay reserve price. So this they pay reserve price. So this they pay reserve price. So this mitigates some of the gaps in value. It

[24:45] mitigates some of the gaps in value. It mitigates some of the gaps in value. It also mitigates partially uh some what also mitigates partially uh some what also mitigates partially uh some what you said at least you know the seller is you said at least you know the seller is you said at least you know the seller is guaranteed to at least meet your reserve guaranteed to at least meet your reserve guaranteed to at least meet your reserve uh so it mitigates some of the uh so it mitigates some of the uh so it mitigates some of the adversarial behavior uh that we talked adversarial behavior uh that we talked adversarial behavior uh that we talked about. Yes, about. Yes, about. Yes, &gt;&gt; the reserve has hidden &gt;&gt; the reserve has hidden &gt;&gt; the reserve has hidden &gt;&gt; um you could do both in this setting. &gt;&gt; um you could do both in this setting. &gt;&gt; um you could do both in this setting. It's known and public um but yeah you It's known and public um but yeah you It's known and public um but yeah you can have either mechanism and can have either mechanism and can have either mechanism and interesting in different ways as you interesting in different ways as you interesting in different ways as you might imagine. We'll talk a little bit might imagine. We'll talk a little bit might imagine. We'll talk a little bit about amount of information available to about amount of information available to about amount of information available to go through Um, cool. Good question. So,

[25:16] go through Um, cool. Good question. So, go through Um, cool. Good question. So, yeah, literal example. Uh, yeah, literal example. Uh, yeah, literal example. Uh, I guess some numbers to ground it. I guess some numbers to ground it. I guess some numbers to ground it. Um, Um, Um, other or any questions on the setup? other or any questions on the setup? other or any questions on the setup? Okay. So, um, Okay. So, um, Okay. So, um, no, lots of people have worked on this. no, lots of people have worked on this. no, lots of people have worked on this. We're going to see lots of Nobel Prize We're going to see lots of Nobel Prize We're going to see lots of Nobel Prize winners actually. So it's I think one of winners actually. So it's I think one of winners actually. So it's I think one of those areas where economics oh I guess a those areas where economics oh I guess a those areas where economics oh I guess a lot of them not surprising economics lot of them not surprising economics lot of them not surprising economics Nobel prizes that have worked

[25:46] Nobel prizes that have worked Nobel prizes that have worked specifically on mechanism design kinds specifically on mechanism design kinds specifically on mechanism design kinds of questions uh so in particular there's of questions uh so in particular there's of questions uh so in particular there's the second price auction is sometimes the second price auction is sometimes the second price auction is sometimes also called the victory auction um also called the victory auction um also called the victory auction um and uh you know this work done in ' 61 and uh you know this work done in ' 61 and uh you know this work done in ' 61 eventually led to a Nobel prize and eventually led to a Nobel prize and eventually led to a Nobel prize and there's been a bunch of following work there's been a bunch of following work there's been a bunch of following work in the CS literature engaging with this in the CS literature engaging with this in the CS literature engaging with this question uh again adding in some of what question uh again adding in some of what question uh again adding in some of what we've talked talked about a little bit we've talked talked about a little bit we've talked talked about a little bit things about computability, things about things about computability, things about things about computability, things about uh learnability if there's a learning uh learnability if there's a learning uh learnability if there's a learning algorithm in the middle, uh strategic

[26:17] algorithm in the middle, uh strategic algorithm in the middle, uh strategic behavior of different agents, different behavior of different agents, different behavior of different agents, different settings, things like that. Okay. Um so settings, things like that. Okay. Um so settings, things like that. Okay. Um so uh a bit more formally to set things up uh a bit more formally to set things up uh a bit more formally to set things up uh suppose we have m items and n buyers. uh suppose we have m items and n buyers. uh suppose we have m items and n buyers. Um and each buyer has some value for Um and each buyer has some value for Um and each buyer has some value for every possible bundle of items within every possible bundle of items within every possible bundle of items within set of items. Uh however you one defines set of items. Uh however you one defines set of items. Uh however you one defines the bundle. And so um sometimes this the bundle. And so um sometimes this the bundle. And so um sometimes this list of value across all the set of list of value across all the set of list of value across all the set of items is sometimes called the virus type

[26:47] items is sometimes called the virus type items is sometimes called the virus type which is again just you can think about which is again just you can think about which is again just you can think about this as a vector of enumerated of the this as a vector of enumerated of the this as a vector of enumerated of the value for every possible bundle of items value for every possible bundle of items value for every possible bundle of items within the set of items. within the set of items. within the set of items. Okay. And so for instance in our coffee Okay. And so for instance in our coffee Okay. And so for instance in our coffee example as we already went through has example as we already went through has example as we already went through has an example potential buyer. So the set an example potential buyer. So the set an example potential buyer. So the set of items coffee and cupcake um you know of items coffee and cupcake um you know of items coffee and cupcake um you know value for uh value for uh value for uh nothing is zero numbers for every nothing is zero numbers for every nothing is zero numbers for every combination of things like we already

[27:17] combination of things like we already combination of things like we already talked about. And so their type would be talked about. And so their type would be talked about. And so their type would be just this uh this list of um just this uh this list of um just this uh this list of um values for different items. And you values for different items. And you values for different items. And you could have this across all the different could have this across all the different could have this across all the different buyers in your in the system. buyers in your in the system. buyers in your in the system. Okay. And so in the sales setting the Okay. And so in the sales setting the Okay. And so in the sales setting the mechanism is defined by two main mechanism is defined by two main mechanism is defined by two main functions uh which is allocation which functions uh which is allocation which functions uh which is allocation which is what uh some process that decides is what uh some process that decides is what uh some process that decides which buyers get what items um and then which buyers get what items um and then which buyers get what items um and then a payments which defines how much each

[27:49] a payments which defines how much each a payments which defines how much each buyer pays once they engage in the buyer pays once they engage in the buyer pays once they engage in the mechanism. And as mentioned often uh or mechanism. And as mentioned often uh or mechanism. And as mentioned often uh or what definitely you can well given this what definitely you can well given this what definitely you can well given this setup you can always measure the revenue setup you can always measure the revenue setup you can always measure the revenue which is again generally thought of as which is again generally thought of as which is again generally thought of as sort of the sum of patients across all sort of the sum of patients across all sort of the sum of patients across all the buyers that participated uh in this the buyers that participated uh in this the buyers that participated uh in this mechanism. Um and again you know might mechanism. Um and again you know might mechanism. Um and again you know might think about this as the targets in a of think about this as the targets in a of think about this as the targets in a of like what you want to maximize or you like what you want to maximize or you like what you want to maximize or you could have other things as we alluded to could have other things as we alluded to could have other things as we alluded to briefly that you want to maximize. Um,

[28:20] briefly that you want to maximize. Um, briefly that you want to maximize. Um, it's also worth saying that depending on it's also worth saying that depending on it's also worth saying that depending on the specifics of the mechanism, often the specifics of the mechanism, often the specifics of the mechanism, often buyers can bid whatever they like. As buyers can bid whatever they like. As buyers can bid whatever they like. As mentioned, often there will be mentioned, often there will be mentioned, often there will be incentivized to be strategic. Because of incentivized to be strategic. Because of incentivized to be strategic. Because of this, they may bid something that's not this, they may bid something that's not this, they may bid something that's not their true value of an item. And so, their true value of an item. And so, their true value of an item. And so, we'll talk through implications of this we'll talk through implications of this we'll talk through implications of this and what's some of what is known about and what's some of what is known about and what's some of what is known about designing mechanisms to make it more designing mechanisms to make it more designing mechanisms to make it more likely that uh buyers might bid their likely that uh buyers might bid their likely that uh buyers might bid their true value for the bundle, the set of true value for the bundle, the set of true value for the bundle, the set of items.

[28:50] items. items. questions. Okay. So, some properties uh that you Okay. So, some properties uh that you might want and one that I thought of as might want and one that I thought of as might want and one that I thought of as like the sort of core things that often like the sort of core things that often like the sort of core things that often won't want when designing mechanisms. won't want when designing mechanisms. won't want when designing mechanisms. One we covered this in social choice One we covered this in social choice One we covered this in social choice briefly. Um this idea of incentive briefly. Um this idea of incentive briefly. Um this idea of incentive compatibility. compatibility. compatibility. Uh this is uh incentivizing agents so Uh this is uh incentivizing agents so Uh this is uh incentivizing agents so that they bid their true value. They're that they bid their true value. They're that they bid their true value. They're likely to bid truthfully. um which you likely to bid truthfully. um which you likely to bid truthfully. um which you know has multiple potential well for our

[29:22] know has multiple potential well for our know has multiple potential well for our purposes as a designer we often this is purposes as a designer we often this is purposes as a designer we often this is our goal um our goal um our goal um and you can think about this purely in and you can think about this purely in and you can think about this purely in this sort of economic revenue maximizing this sort of economic revenue maximizing this sort of economic revenue maximizing sense or you can also think about this sense or you can also think about this sense or you can also think about this in terms of eliciting preferences. So in terms of eliciting preferences. So in terms of eliciting preferences. So the true value you can think of as like the true value you can think of as like the true value you can think of as like well the true value for the items and well the true value for the items and well the true value for the items and this is like the target that you might this is like the target that you might this is like the target that you might be interested in in this uh elicitation be interested in in this uh elicitation be interested in in this uh elicitation mechanism. Um, another thing that you mechanism. Um, another thing that you mechanism. Um, another thing that you will often want the mechanism to do is will often want the mechanism to do is will often want the mechanism to do is uh, and this is often from the buyer uh, and this is often from the buyer uh, and this is often from the buyer point of view is to be individually

[29:52] point of view is to be individually point of view is to be individually rational. So if they're strategic and rational. So if they're strategic and rational. So if they're strategic and are looking to maximize or whatever are looking to maximize or whatever are looking to maximize or whatever in terms of engaging mechanism, uh, you in terms of engaging mechanism, uh, you in terms of engaging mechanism, uh, you ideally want to set things up such that ideally want to set things up such that ideally want to set things up such that they have nothing to lose by they have nothing to lose by they have nothing to lose by participating in the mechanism versus participating in the mechanism versus participating in the mechanism versus not. So essentially this makes it you not. So essentially this makes it you not. So essentially this makes it you know reduces the barrier to entry for know reduces the barrier to entry for know reduces the barrier to entry for them to choose to to engage in the them to choose to to engage in the them to choose to to engage in the mechanism. So we'll talk through some of mechanism. So we'll talk through some of mechanism. So we'll talk through some of this in a second. this in a second. this in a second. Uh so incentive compatibility is also Uh so incentive compatibility is also Uh so incentive compatibility is also another canonical idea. So yet another

[30:24] another canonical idea. So yet another another canonical idea. So yet another uh Nobel Prize uh in 2007 uh Nobel Prize uh in 2007 uh Nobel Prize uh in 2007 um uh originally introduced by Heritz in um uh originally introduced by Heritz in um uh originally introduced by Heritz in ' 72. Um and again as mentioned so ' 72. Um and again as mentioned so ' 72. Um and again as mentioned so formally primarily in sort of economics formally primarily in sort of economics formally primarily in sort of economics literature but then engaged quite a bit literature but then engaged quite a bit literature but then engaged quite a bit uh across lots of other literatures uh across lots of other literatures uh across lots of other literatures increasing increasingly a good computer increasing increasingly a good computer increasing increasingly a good computer science literature science literature science literature and so formally and so formally and so formally uh uh uh so I guess state a claim and then uh do

[30:55] so I guess state a claim and then uh do so I guess state a claim and then uh do a sort of informal proof of the claim a sort of informal proof of the claim a sort of informal proof of the claim and pointers to uh sort of formal proofs and pointers to uh sort of formal proofs and pointers to uh sort of formal proofs if you're interested. Um so the informal if you're interested. Um so the informal if you're interested. Um so the informal claim is that the second price auction claim is that the second price auction claim is that the second price auction which we talked about briefly which is which we talked about briefly which is which we talked about briefly which is this idea that uh you collect a set of this idea that uh you collect a set of this idea that uh you collect a set of bids and then uh the winner is uh bids and then uh the winner is uh bids and then uh the winner is uh whoever has the highest bid and then whoever has the highest bid and then whoever has the highest bid and then what they pay is the second price second what they pay is the second price second what they pay is the second price second highest price. Uh so whoever bids second highest price. Uh so whoever bids second highest price. Uh so whoever bids second number um and the claim here is this is number um and the claim here is this is number um and the claim here is this is incentive compatible which means here

[31:25] incentive compatible which means here incentive compatible which means here that the bidder every bidder will that the bidder every bidder will that the bidder every bidder will maximize their utility by bidding maximize their utility by bidding maximize their utility by bidding truthfully. So the claim here is that uh truthfully. So the claim here is that uh truthfully. So the claim here is that uh if I choose this as the auction if I choose this as the auction if I choose this as the auction mechanism, the biders are incentivized mechanism, the biders are incentivized mechanism, the biders are incentivized to bid their true value and cannot do to bid their true value and cannot do to bid their true value and cannot do better by over population sense overruns better by over population sense overruns better by over population sense overruns by um trying to be strategic and bid by um trying to be strategic and bid by um trying to be strategic and bid something that's different from their something that's different from their something that's different from their true value. Okay, so let's let's go true value. Okay, so let's let's go true value. Okay, so let's let's go through this. So utility here is again through this. So utility here is again through this. So utility here is again measured as uh the value that they place

[31:57] measured as uh the value that they place measured as uh the value that they place on the particular uh item that they end on the particular uh item that they end on the particular uh item that they end up winning um minus the payments. So up winning um minus the payments. So up winning um minus the payments. So this gap uh times or indicators are this gap uh times or indicators are this gap uh times or indicators are selecting for whether or not they won. selecting for whether or not they won. selecting for whether or not they won. So over a set of assuming there's a So over a set of assuming there's a So over a set of assuming there's a single winner. This is just the value single winner. This is just the value single winner. This is just the value manage payment of the winner is the sort manage payment of the winner is the sort manage payment of the winner is the sort of uh utility for an individual. you can of uh utility for an individual. you can of uh utility for an individual. you can average this over population. average this over population. average this over population. Okay. So why might this be true? So uh Okay. So why might this be true? So uh Okay. So why might this be true? So uh we talked through some strategies and

[32:28] we talked through some strategies and we talked through some strategies and there were some version of like should I there were some version of like should I there were some version of like should I bid over my value? Should I bid less my bid over my value? Should I bid less my bid over my value? Should I bid less my value? Let's talk through the first one. value? Let's talk through the first one. value? Let's talk through the first one. So and one idea is to strategically bid So and one idea is to strategically bid So and one idea is to strategically bid bigger than your value because you know bigger than your value because you know bigger than your value because you know that you're not going to actually have that you're not going to actually have that you're not going to actually have to pay what you bid. You're going to bid to pay what you bid. You're going to bid to pay what you bid. You're going to bid you pay the second price. So uh why not you pay the second price. So uh why not you pay the second price. So uh why not do that? do that? do that? Um so um if they would have been a Um so um if they would have been a Um so um if they would have been a winner because they had the highest uh winner because they had the highest uh winner because they had the highest uh value then they're still the winner value then they're still the winner value then they're still the winner uh whether or not they bid above their

[32:58] uh whether or not they bid above their uh whether or not they bid above their true value. So just to be clear on this true value. So just to be clear on this true value. So just to be clear on this uh we have a set of biders across say on uh we have a set of biders across say on uh we have a set of biders across say on this line bunch of biders that have some this line bunch of biders that have some this line bunch of biders that have some set of prices they bid for an item. Um set of prices they bid for an item. Um set of prices they bid for an item. Um suppose in this list uh individual K was suppose in this list uh individual K was suppose in this list uh individual K was going to be the winner of this auction going to be the winner of this auction going to be the winner of this auction because they had the highest uh value because they had the highest uh value because they had the highest uh value for the item. Then if they bid something for the item. Then if they bid something for the item. Then if they bid something above their true value, they're still above their true value, they're still above their true value, they're still going to win uh compared to the other

[33:28] going to win uh compared to the other going to win uh compared to the other situation uh and the price will not situation uh and the price will not situation uh and the price will not change. So they've got nothing uh from change. So they've got nothing uh from change. So they've got nothing uh from doing this extra work of bidding higher doing this extra work of bidding higher doing this extra work of bidding higher than the true value. So the claim here than the true value. So the claim here than the true value. So the claim here is that in a setting where uh again it is that in a setting where uh again it is that in a setting where uh again it would have been the winners anyway would have been the winners anyway would have been the winners anyway there's no additional benefit to bidding there's no additional benefit to bidding there's no additional benefit to bidding something higher. something higher. something higher. Um separately if they were going to lose Um separately if they were going to lose Um separately if they were going to lose the bid meaning someone else had a the bid meaning someone else had a the bid meaning someone else had a higher value for the item. Um then they higher value for the item. Um then they higher value for the item. Um then they might end up winning by bidding might end up winning by bidding might end up winning by bidding something higher than the value but then something higher than the value but then something higher than the value but then they pay more than their value. And so

[34:00] they pay more than their value. And so they pay more than their value. And so this uh difference here goes from this uh difference here goes from this uh difference here goes from positive to negative. The utility positive to negative. The utility positive to negative. The utility becomes negative. See if this works. It becomes negative. See if this works. It becomes negative. See if this works. It works when it likes. And now it's not works when it likes. And now it's not works when it likes. And now it's not one of them. Let's try the cursor. Okay. one of them. Let's try the cursor. Okay. one of them. Let's try the cursor. Okay. So this uh evaluation of the utility So this uh evaluation of the utility So this uh evaluation of the utility which is this gap from what they truly which is this gap from what they truly which is this gap from what they truly value for an item versus what they pay value for an item versus what they pay value for an item versus what they pay uh is assumed to be positive, right? uh is assumed to be positive, right? uh is assumed to be positive, right? Because you're assuming that we're sort Because you're assuming that we're sort Because you're assuming that we're sort of paying less than or equal to the of paying less than or equal to the of paying less than or equal to the value for an item. But if they bid value for an item. But if they bid value for an item. But if they bid really high, then everyone else can bid

[34:30] really high, then everyone else can bid really high, then everyone else can bid whatever they like. And so there's a whatever they like. And so there's a whatever they like. And so there's a good chance that uh if they bid high, good chance that uh if they bid high, good chance that uh if they bid high, then the second price winner will also then the second price winner will also then the second price winner will also be ahead of their value. And so they'll be ahead of their value. And so they'll be ahead of their value. And so they'll end up paying more than the value. And end up paying more than the value. And end up paying more than the value. And so you have negative utility in that so you have negative utility in that so you have negative utility in that situation. And so from the point of view situation. And so from the point of view situation. And so from the point of view of the individual bidder, uh the claim of the individual bidder, uh the claim of the individual bidder, uh the claim here informally again state formally is here informally again state formally is here informally again state formally is that there's not a benefit to bidding that there's not a benefit to bidding that there's not a benefit to bidding higher than the value from an individual higher than the value from an individual higher than the value from an individual actor point of view in this mechanism. Okay, the other strategy is to Okay, the other strategy is to strategically or overusing strategy

[35:02] strategically or overusing strategy strategically or overusing strategy here, but uh you could choose to bid here, but uh you could choose to bid here, but uh you could choose to bid below. So we can go through what might below. So we can go through what might below. So we can go through what might happen. Um so again you can argue happen. Um so again you can argue happen. Um so again you can argue suppose they would have been the winner suppose they would have been the winner suppose they would have been the winner so they had the highest value across so they had the highest value across so they had the highest value across everyone. Uh now if they bid below their everyone. Uh now if they bid below their everyone. Uh now if they bid below their true value uh true value uh true value uh then their true value may end up lower then their true value may end up lower then their true value may end up lower than than than um someone else who has a higher true um someone else who has a higher true um someone else who has a higher true value that chooses to bid their true value that chooses to bid their true value that chooses to bid their true value and so they end up losing the value and so they end up losing the value and so they end up losing the auction uh and so they lose the item and

[35:34] auction uh and so they lose the item and auction uh and so they lose the item and again they get zero utility. So again, again they get zero utility. So again, again they get zero utility. So again, you know, in terms from the point of you know, in terms from the point of you know, in terms from the point of view of the uh participant or the buyer, view of the uh participant or the buyer, view of the uh participant or the buyer, you're going to have positive utility, you're going to have positive utility, you're going to have positive utility, the value is higher than what you pay. the value is higher than what you pay. the value is higher than what you pay. Have zero utility, which you can just Have zero utility, which you can just Have zero utility, which you can just think of as they don't win or they pay think of as they don't win or they pay think of as they don't win or they pay the same as the value. Um or you can the same as the value. Um or you can the same as the value. Um or you can have negative utility, you overpay uh have negative utility, you overpay uh have negative utility, you overpay uh above your value. And so the argument above your value. And so the argument above your value. And so the argument is, you know, if you're trying to is, you know, if you're trying to is, you know, if you're trying to maximize this, what are different maximize this, what are different maximize this, what are different strategic uh decisions to make and what

[36:04] strategic uh decisions to make and what strategic uh decisions to make and what their impacts might be? So you know if their impacts might be? So you know if their impacts might be? So you know if you bid too low then you might lose an you bid too low then you might lose an you bid too low then you might lose an auction that you might have otherwise auction that you might have otherwise auction that you might have otherwise won and so you end up getting uh won and so you end up getting uh won and so you end up getting uh negative utility or zero utility from negative utility or zero utility from negative utility or zero utility from losing the auction. losing the auction. losing the auction. Okay. Uh separately if you're going to Okay. Uh separately if you're going to Okay. Uh separately if you're going to lose anyway because other people have lose anyway because other people have lose anyway because other people have higher value for that item than you higher value for that item than you higher value for that item than you would uh then you're still going to lose would uh then you're still going to lose would uh then you're still going to lose uh uh uh reading it in real time. I might have reading it in real time. I might have reading it in real time. I might have used slightly different words but same used slightly different words but same used slightly different words but same thing. If they're going to lose, they'll thing. If they're going to lose, they'll thing. If they're going to lose, they'll lose uh the auction and so the utility

[36:34] lose uh the auction and so the utility lose uh the auction and so the utility is zero. And so it's not from the their is zero. And so it's not from the their is zero. And so it's not from the their individual strategic uh point of view, individual strategic uh point of view, individual strategic uh point of view, they're not essentially they don't do they're not essentially they don't do they're not essentially they don't do any better mechanism by strategically any better mechanism by strategically any better mechanism by strategically choosing to bid lower as argued here or choosing to bid lower as argued here or choosing to bid lower as argued here or higher as argued in the previous slide. higher as argued in the previous slide. higher as argued in the previous slide. uh thoughts, questions.

[37:04] Okay, so second prices again, if you've Okay, so second prices again, if you've ever engaged in anything related to ever engaged in anything related to ever engaged in anything related to auctions, you've almost definitely heard auctions, you've almost definitely heard auctions, you've almost definitely heard of it. Sort of uh these property, this of it. Sort of uh these property, this of it. Sort of uh these property, this property in particular has um led it to property in particular has um led it to property in particular has um led it to be, I think, one of the more successful be, I think, one of the more successful be, I think, one of the more successful strategies. So um we'll get to this in a strategies. So um we'll get to this in a strategies. So um we'll get to this in a little bit. It turns out that lots of little bit. It turns out that lots of little bit. It turns out that lots of the search mechanisms use second price. the search mechanisms use second price. the search mechanisms use second price. It turns out that they're not fully well It turns out that they're not fully well It turns out that they're not fully well matched in that second price is for a matched in that second price is for a matched in that second price is for a single item being bid on whereas in single item being bid on whereas in single item being bid on whereas in search settings typically you're bidding search settings typically you're bidding search settings typically you're bidding over a bundle of items. Um

[37:36] over a bundle of items. Um over a bundle of items. Um so it turns out we we'll we'll spend two so it turns out we we'll we'll spend two so it turns out we we'll we'll spend two minutes on it at the end but there's minutes on it at the end but there's minutes on it at the end but there's some mismatch there. That said, second some mismatch there. That said, second some mismatch there. That said, second price has had a huge impact in um in price has had a huge impact in um in price has had a huge impact in um in practice and is like essentially practice and is like essentially practice and is like essentially deleting auction mechanism partially deleting auction mechanism partially deleting auction mechanism partially because uh of this this claim this idea because uh of this this claim this idea because uh of this this claim this idea that uh for a rational that uh for a rational that uh for a rational buying agent their best action is to bid buying agent their best action is to bid buying agent their best action is to bid your true value for the item. So your true value for the item. So your true value for the item. So strategically trying to bid above the

[38:06] strategically trying to bid above the strategically trying to bid above the value or strategically trying bid below value or strategically trying bid below value or strategically trying bid below the value in a population setting will the value in a population setting will the value in a population setting will mean that they will do worse than if mean that they will do worse than if mean that they will do worse than if they bid their true value. they bid their true value. they bid their true value. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Yes. &gt;&gt; Is it also the best thing for the one &gt;&gt; Is it also the best thing for the one &gt;&gt; Is it also the best thing for the one that sells the item? that sells the item? that sells the item? &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um &gt;&gt; Um not not not necessarily and in fact we'll get to necessarily and in fact we'll get to necessarily and in fact we'll get to this in two seconds. So no. Uh so the this in two seconds. So no. Uh so the this in two seconds. So no. Uh so the claim here the question was as I claim here the question was as I claim here the question was as I understand it is second price the max understand it is second price the max understand it is second price the max the optimal uh mechanism in terms of say the optimal uh mechanism in terms of say the optimal uh mechanism in terms of say revenue if you're trying to maximize

[38:37] revenue if you're trying to maximize revenue if you're trying to maximize revenue and the answer is no uh for revenue and the answer is no uh for revenue and the answer is no uh for single item auction kinds of bids but it single item auction kinds of bids but it single item auction kinds of bids but it is optimal for or sorry it is it does is optimal for or sorry it is it does is optimal for or sorry it is it does satisfy this property but it's not the satisfy this property but it's not the satisfy this property but it's not the revenue maximizer mechanism sorry okay another property which we uh okay another property which we uh mentioned briefly is this idea of mentioned briefly is this idea of mentioned briefly is this idea of individual rationality. So again another

[39:08] individual rationality. So again another individual rationality. So again another nice property of second price is that nice property of second price is that nice property of second price is that it's individually rational. The claim it's individually rational. The claim it's individually rational. The claim again stated informally and uh I'll again stated informally and uh I'll again stated informally and uh I'll point you to references if you want to point you to references if you want to point you to references if you want to read more carefully or get a formal read more carefully or get a formal read more carefully or get a formal proof is that each bidder is no worse proof is that each bidder is no worse proof is that each bidder is no worse off participating than not when they off participating than not when they off participating than not when they choose to bid your true value. So again choose to bid your true value. So again choose to bid your true value. So again in terms of their individual in terms of their individual in terms of their individual uh I guess rational choice of uh I guess rational choice of uh I guess rational choice of participating not participating uh they participating not participating uh they participating not participating uh they don't lose anything by choosing to don't lose anything by choosing to don't lose anything by choosing to participate if they're going to choose participate if they're going to choose participate if they're going to choose if they're going to engage in this using if they're going to engage in this using if they're going to engage in this using their true value for a set of items.

[39:39] their true value for a set of items. their true value for a set of items. Just repeated that. So um Just repeated that. So um Just repeated that. So um uh the way to see this um if the price uh the way to see this um if the price uh the way to see this um if the price of the the final price of the item is of the the final price of the item is of the the final price of the item is less than uh their value they pay less than uh their value they pay less than uh their value they pay nothing or their payment is smaller than nothing or their payment is smaller than nothing or their payment is smaller than uh value. Um sorry actually that's the uh value. Um sorry actually that's the uh value. Um sorry actually that's the claim. Yeah. So biders pay nothing or claim. Yeah. So biders pay nothing or claim. Yeah. So biders pay nothing or the payment is smaller than the true the payment is smaller than the true the payment is smaller than the true value for the item given participating value for the item given participating value for the item given participating because again remember if they bid their because again remember if they bid their because again remember if they bid their true value then they either win the true value then they either win the true value then they either win the auction and pay a second price so they

[40:10] auction and pay a second price so they auction and pay a second price so they have positive utility. Um or they lose have positive utility. Um or they lose have positive utility. Um or they lose the auction but someone who had a higher the auction but someone who had a higher the auction but someone who had a higher higher value for the item will win the higher value for the item will win the higher value for the item will win the auction. And so uh strategically in auction. And so uh strategically in auction. And so uh strategically in terms of uh engaging in this they lose terms of uh engaging in this they lose terms of uh engaging in this they lose nothing by choosing to engage as long as nothing by choosing to engage as long as nothing by choosing to engage as long as they choose to use the true value. Is they choose to use the true value. Is they choose to use the true value. Is that clear? I'm feeling a bit word that clear? I'm feeling a bit word that clear? I'm feeling a bit word salad, so I want to make sure it's salad, so I want to make sure it's salad, so I want to make sure it's getting across clearly enough.

[40:41] Cool. All right. Um, so, uh, slightly Cool. All right. Um, so, uh, slightly more formally and the way often these more formally and the way often these more formally and the way often these analyses are done, uh, need a little bit analyses are done, uh, need a little bit analyses are done, uh, need a little bit more information. So, generally you can more information. So, generally you can more information. So, generally you can think of bias values as defined by a think of bias values as defined by a think of bias values as defined by a probability distribution. to think of probability distribution. to think of probability distribution. to think of these as samples from some distribution these as samples from some distribution these as samples from some distribution over the bundle of uh potential set of over the bundle of uh potential set of over the bundle of uh potential set of items. items. items. Um and from that perspective there are a Um and from that perspective there are a Um and from that perspective there are a bunch of different ways that you can bunch of different ways that you can bunch of different ways that you can analyze uh IC properties. Um so the analyze uh IC properties. Um so the analyze uh IC properties. Um so the first is what is often called and I just

[41:11] first is what is often called and I just first is what is often called and I just list these as definitions more than list these as definitions more than list these as definitions more than engage in detail. The main thing to get engage in detail. The main thing to get engage in detail. The main thing to get away here from here is different levels away here from here is different levels away here from here is different levels of information about the rest of the of information about the rest of the of information about the rest of the mechanism that each bidder might have um mechanism that each bidder might have um mechanism that each bidder might have um and agents might have. So um one and agents might have. So um one and agents might have. So um one analysis is purely distri analysis is purely distri analysis is purely distri distributional. So you presume some distributional. So you presume some distributional. So you presume some distribution over values across items distribution over values across items distribution over values across items from all the biders. And so this is from all the biders. And so this is from all the biders. And so this is often called X anti- IC or instead of often called X anti- IC or instead of often called X anti- IC or instead of compatibility. So the goal of the

[41:42] compatibility. So the goal of the compatibility. So the goal of the mechanism designer here is to uh ensure mechanism designer here is to uh ensure mechanism designer here is to uh ensure truthfulness in expectation over values truthfulness in expectation over values truthfulness in expectation over values given knowledge of distribution of that given knowledge of distribution of that given knowledge of distribution of that where the values are sampled from. where the values are sampled from. where the values are sampled from. Um uh slightly uh stronger notion is Um uh slightly uh stronger notion is Um uh slightly uh stronger notion is called x interim. So now biders called x interim. So now biders called x interim. So now biders uh know their value and distributions uh know their value and distributions uh know their value and distributions over others values. And so you want uh over others values. And so you want uh over others values. And so you want uh even in this setting some notion of even in this setting some notion of even in this setting some notion of truthfulness to be the dominant strategy

[42:13] truthfulness to be the dominant strategy truthfulness to be the dominant strategy like the best thing to do to engage in like the best thing to do to engage in like the best thing to do to engage in this eos in this mechanism that's called this eos in this mechanism that's called this eos in this mechanism that's called x interim IC and then finally it is x interim IC and then finally it is x interim IC and then finally it is called expost there's a term expost IC called expost there's a term expost IC called expost there's a term expost IC which is you can think of as the which is you can think of as the which is you can think of as the strongest version so now I don't know strongest version so now I don't know strongest version so now I don't know distributions I know actual bids of distributions I know actual bids of distributions I know actual bids of everybody um actually no sorry I know everybody um actually no sorry I know everybody um actually no sorry I know actual values of everybody so I know actual values of everybody so I know actual values of everybody so I know essentially what everyone values for all essentially what everyone values for all essentially what everyone values for all the items um and you still want or you'd the items um and you still want or you'd the items um and you still want or you'd like that the biders should still be like that the biders should still be like that the biders should still be incentivized to be truthful in that incentivized to be truthful in that incentivized to be truthful in that setting. So you can think about this as

[42:44] setting. So you can think about this as setting. So you can think about this as sort of different amounts of information sort of different amounts of information sort of different amounts of information that biders might know and uh that biders might know and uh that biders might know and uh definitions of IC and these different definitions of IC and these different definitions of IC and these different kinds of settings. And so you see this kinds of settings. And so you see this kinds of settings. And so you see this when you look through the literature on when you look through the literature on when you look through the literature on uh incentive compatibility. uh incentive compatibility. uh incentive compatibility. Um okay so there lots of mechanisms out Um okay so there lots of mechanisms out Um okay so there lots of mechanisms out in the world different kinds of in the world different kinds of in the world different kinds of purchasing systems we talked through purchasing systems we talked through purchasing systems we talked through options we talked through uh I guess options we talked through uh I guess options we talked through uh I guess first price in general. Um many of them first price in general. Um many of them first price in general. Um many of them I guess either known to not be incentive

[43:15] I guess either known to not be incentive I guess either known to not be incentive compatible or in some settings they're compatible or in some settings they're compatible or in some settings they're sufficiently complex that like the full sufficiently complex that like the full sufficiently complex that like the full analysis has not been done yet. So it's analysis has not been done yet. So it's analysis has not been done yet. So it's not known if they are. Um so common ones not known if they are. Um so common ones not known if they are. Um so common ones things like uh first price auctions things like uh first price auctions things like uh first price auctions which is often what display ads use. So which is often what display ads use. So which is often what display ads use. So you pay the price uh the winner pays the you pay the price uh the winner pays the you pay the price uh the winner pays the price that they bid for many display price that they bid for many display price that they bid for many display ads. Um and you know if you don't have ads. Um and you know if you don't have ads. Um and you know if you don't have this then what this means is that you this then what this means is that you this then what this means is that you know a strategic actor may do better by

[43:47] know a strategic actor may do better by know a strategic actor may do better by picking a bid that's not their true picking a bid that's not their true picking a bid that's not their true value for the thing you're selling. value for the thing you're selling. value for the thing you're selling. Right? So again that's the the potential Right? So again that's the the potential Right? So again that's the the potential loss the potential cost I guess for the loss the potential cost I guess for the loss the potential cost I guess for the mechanism of not having incentive mechanism of not having incentive mechanism of not having incentive providability is that you lose the claim providability is that you lose the claim providability is that you lose the claim or the guarantee that uh participants or the guarantee that uh participants or the guarantee that uh participants are incentivized to bid with true value. are incentivized to bid with true value. are incentivized to bid with true value. Okay so things like uh first pass Okay so things like uh first pass Okay so things like uh first pass auctions we talked briefly uh many auctions we talked briefly uh many auctions we talked briefly uh many sponsored search ads so things like what sponsored search ads so things like what sponsored search ads so things like what Google uses uh are called generalized

[44:18] Google uses uh are called generalized Google uses uh are called generalized second price auctions. The main second price auctions. The main second price auctions. The main difference is again uh the first price I difference is again uh the first price I difference is again uh the first price I see claim is for multiple biders single see claim is for multiple biders single see claim is for multiple biders single item in search ads you're bidding over item in search ads you're bidding over item in search ads you're bidding over like ranking like multiple placements of like ranking like multiple placements of like ranking like multiple placements of search ads and multiple items and uh search ads and multiple items and uh search ads and multiple items and uh in practice in general um so I think the in practice in general um so I think the in practice in general um so I think the following is known so people still use following is known so people still use following is known so people still use most search ads still use generalized most search ads still use generalized most search ads still use generalized second price auctions anyway um

[44:50] second price auctions anyway um second price auctions anyway um people have shown that there are people have shown that there are people have shown that there are strategies that can game second price strategies that can game second price strategies that can game second price auctions though it's known not to be auctions though it's known not to be auctions though it's known not to be incentive compatible I think yet it's incentive compatible I think yet it's incentive compatible I think yet it's still probably the most popular deployed still probably the most popular deployed still probably the most popular deployed algorithm uh so it's maybe a interesting algorithm uh so it's maybe a interesting algorithm uh so it's maybe a interesting unc cognitive dissonance that uh you unc cognitive dissonance that uh you unc cognitive dissonance that uh you know there's a strong property that we know there's a strong property that we know there's a strong property that we want um want um want um there is a idea that's inspired by uh a there is a idea that's inspired by uh a there is a idea that's inspired by uh a different setting where we have very different setting where we have very different setting where we have very strong guarantees, people transfer it to

[45:21] strong guarantees, people transfer it to strong guarantees, people transfer it to this new setting. The guarantee is lost, this new setting. The guarantee is lost, this new setting. The guarantee is lost, but you know, it's still used in but you know, it's still used in but you know, it's still used in practice. Um, practice. Um, practice. Um, okay. Um, yeah. And also lots of other okay. Um, yeah. And also lots of other okay. Um, yeah. And also lots of other kind of like more complex combinatorial kind of like more complex combinatorial kind of like more complex combinatorial auctions and things like that are either auctions and things like that are either auctions and things like that are either known to not be incentive compatible or known to not be incentive compatible or known to not be incentive compatible or not known because the analysis is not known because the analysis is not known because the analysis is incomplete. So some of the issues incomplete. So some of the issues incomplete. So some of the issues include uh that figuring out the values include uh that figuring out the values include uh that figuring out the values might be expensive. Um so this is a sort might be expensive. Um so this is a sort might be expensive. Um so this is a sort of computational argument. Um issues

[45:52] of computational argument. Um issues of computational argument. Um issues with like the rules and ease of with like the rules and ease of with like the rules and ease of explaining. Um there might be some explaining. Um there might be some explaining. Um there might be some leakage between the bidding process and leakage between the bidding process and leakage between the bidding process and the sort of auction mechanism. So for the sort of auction mechanism. So for the sort of auction mechanism. So for instance using bids ten feature instance using bids ten feature instance using bids ten feature parameters of how you might bid in the parameters of how you might bid in the parameters of how you might bid in the future often will change things uh future often will change things uh future often will change things uh depending on exactly how the mechanism depending on exactly how the mechanism depending on exactly how the mechanism is designed um or you know agents are is designed um or you know agents are is designed um or you know agents are not risk neutral and so the premise of not risk neutral and so the premise of not risk neutral and so the premise of the whole thing uh means actually like the whole thing uh means actually like

[46:22] the whole thing uh means actually like invalidates invalidates invalidates uh the assumptions that we're making uh the assumptions that we're making uh the assumptions that we're making about agents participating in the about agents participating in the about agents participating in the mechanism. mechanism. mechanism. Okay. So there's a bunch of work in Okay. So there's a bunch of work in Okay. So there's a bunch of work in literature. Um I also wanted to mention literature. Um I also wanted to mention literature. Um I also wanted to mention that uh while I've stated this as a that uh while I've stated this as a that uh while I've stated this as a property uh there's a bunch of work that property uh there's a bunch of work that property uh there's a bunch of work that also tries to make claims about also tries to make claims about also tries to make claims about approximate notions of incentive approximate notions of incentive approximate notions of incentive compatib compatibility. So some measure compatib compatibility. So some measure compatib compatibility. So some measure of departure from it. Um I won't gauge of departure from it. Um I won't gauge of departure from it. Um I won't gauge it all but I I'll point to references if it all but I I'll point to references if it all but I I'll point to references if you're interested uh to get more details you're interested uh to get more details you're interested uh to get more details on uh other notions of approximates. I

[46:53] on uh other notions of approximates. I on uh other notions of approximates. I see. Okay. So see. Okay. So see. Okay. So um that's most of what I wanted to say um that's most of what I wanted to say um that's most of what I wanted to say on incentive compatibility. on incentive compatibility. on incentive compatibility. Um there's also you can say similar Um there's also you can say similar Um there's also you can say similar things about individual rationality uh things about individual rationality uh things about individual rationality uh purely here in terms of so remember here purely here in terms of so remember here purely here in terms of so remember here this is this argument about whether this is this argument about whether this is this argument about whether biders are worse off choosing to biders are worse off choosing to biders are worse off choosing to participate in your uh mechanism or not. participate in your uh mechanism or not. participate in your uh mechanism or not. And so an IR mechanism has the property And so an IR mechanism has the property And so an IR mechanism has the property that each bidder is not worse off that each bidder is not worse off that each bidder is not worse off choosing to participate. And you can choosing to participate. And you can choosing to participate. And you can analyze this again at different levels

[47:23] analyze this again at different levels analyze this again at different levels of bidder information. Um I'll skip the of bidder information. Um I'll skip the of bidder information. Um I'll skip the next one. Um okay so uh there was a next one. Um okay so uh there was a next one. Um okay so uh there was a question about actually maximizing question about actually maximizing question about actually maximizing revenue. So this is known for single revenue. So this is known for single revenue. So this is known for single item auctions. Um item auctions. Um item auctions. Um so this is due to Meerson and other so this is due to Meerson and other so this is due to Meerson and other Nobel I think a third Nobel Prize. I Nobel I think a third Nobel Prize. I Nobel I think a third Nobel Prize. I think I only had three in this. There think I only had three in this. There think I only had three in this. There might be others related to this. Um so might be others related to this. Um so might be others related to this. Um so uh in 81 showed the revenue maximizing uh in 81 showed the revenue maximizing uh in 81 showed the revenue maximizing single ite auction which is a somewhat

[47:53] single ite auction which is a somewhat single ite auction which is a somewhat more complicated second price. We'll more complicated second price. We'll more complicated second price. We'll talk through it in two seconds. Um so talk through it in two seconds. Um so talk through it in two seconds. Um so we'll answer your question. So the issue we'll answer your question. So the issue we'll answer your question. So the issue with the second price auction as already with the second price auction as already with the second price auction as already identified partially is that a stronger identified partially is that a stronger identified partially is that a stronger bidder always pays the weaker biders uh bidder always pays the weaker biders uh bidder always pays the weaker biders uh bid. And so the revenue from a sellers's bid. And so the revenue from a sellers's bid. And so the revenue from a sellers's point of view uh depends much more point of view uh depends much more point of view uh depends much more strongly on I guess the the values of strongly on I guess the the values of strongly on I guess the the values of the participants and you could argue the participants and you could argue the participants and you could argue that uh from a sales point of view what

[48:25] that uh from a sales point of view what that uh from a sales point of view what they want is the true value of the they want is the true value of the they want is the true value of the actual maximum bid. Uh but if they ask actual maximum bid. Uh but if they ask actual maximum bid. Uh but if they ask for that so if they ask to pay the top for that so if they ask to pay the top for that so if they ask to pay the top bid then you lose incentive bid then you lose incentive bid then you lose incentive compatibility because there strategies compatibility because there strategies compatibility because there strategies that you can then use if you like that you can then use if you like that you can then use if you like there's a trade-off that needs to be there's a trade-off that needs to be there's a trade-off that needs to be made. Um what the seller wants is to made. Um what the seller wants is to made. Um what the seller wants is to maximize their revenue. So get the maximize their revenue. So get the maximize their revenue. So get the highest price. Uh if they knew all the highest price. Uh if they knew all the highest price. Uh if they knew all the values then what they would pick is the values then what they would pick is the values then what they would pick is the the buyer with the highest value. Um if the buyer with the highest value. Um if the buyer with the highest value. Um if they do that then this means your they do that then this means your they do that then this means your mechanism is vulnerable because those

[48:55] mechanism is vulnerable because those mechanism is vulnerable because those buyers can be strategic and actually buyers can be strategic and actually buyers can be strategic and actually then like bid something else and end up then like bid something else and end up then like bid something else and end up paying less. And so there's this sort of paying less. And so there's this sort of paying less. And so there's this sort of yin-yang awareness thing that's yin-yang awareness thing that's yin-yang awareness thing that's happening where the obvious mechanism of happening where the obvious mechanism of happening where the obvious mechanism of like just paying the highest price is like just paying the highest price is like just paying the highest price is loses strategic usefulness but the loses strategic usefulness but the loses strategic usefulness but the mechanism that is known to be mechanism that is known to be mechanism that is known to be strategically correct which is again the strategically correct which is again the strategically correct which is again the second price thing leaves revenue on the second price thing leaves revenue on the second price thing leaves revenue on the table. So it has this uh this gap and so table. So it has this uh this gap and so table. So it has this uh this gap and so suggested a alternative strategy and

[49:26] suggested a alternative strategy and suggested a alternative strategy and then showed that this keeps IC but then then showed that this keeps IC but then then showed that this keeps IC but then also maximizes revenue. So it's a also maximizes revenue. So it's a also maximizes revenue. So it's a relatively simple idea. Um in a relatively simple idea. Um in a relatively simple idea. Um in a distributional setting, let's assume distributional setting, let's assume distributional setting, let's assume that bitter i's value has a distribution that bitter i's value has a distribution that bitter i's value has a distribution with a certain pdf called it f uh say with a certain pdf called it f uh say with a certain pdf called it f uh say supported on 01. So we just normalize so supported on 01. So we just normalize so supported on 01. So we just normalize so that the values are between zero and that the values are between zero and that the values are between zero and one. one. one. And so uh in this setting the And so uh in this setting the And so uh in this setting the um we're going to define um we're going to define um we're going to define a set of virtual values

[50:02] uh which are the difference between uh which are the difference between so so so uh uh uh oh this is a I guess a functional oh this is a I guess a functional oh this is a I guess a functional definition. So given uh the distribution definition. So given uh the distribution definition. So given uh the distribution of values for each individual I'm going of values for each individual I'm going of values for each individual I'm going to define this function which takes that to define this function which takes that to define this function which takes that distribution this function which takes that this function which takes that distribution and computes a new property distribution and computes a new property distribution and computes a new property from it. So this is uh from it. So this is uh from it. So this is uh what the thing I'm going to plug in is what the thing I'm going to plug in is what the thing I'm going to plug in is the value. So I just go ahead and talk the value. So I just go ahead and talk the value. So I just go ahead and talk about this in terms of value. It's going about this in terms of value. It's going about this in terms of value. It's going to be value minus uh some normalized

[50:33] to be value minus uh some normalized to be value minus uh some normalized notion of uh distribution notion of uh distribution notion of uh distribution of values for that individual uh bidder. of values for that individual uh bidder. of values for that individual uh bidder. Okay. So once you compute this uh you're Okay. So once you compute this uh you're Okay. So once you compute this uh you're going to solicit bids from across all going to solicit bids from across all going to solicit bids from across all the buyers. Um and the procedure is the buyers. Um and the procedure is the buyers. Um and the procedure is first you check if all the virtual first you check if all the virtual first you check if all the virtual values this computed quantities across values this computed quantities across values this computed quantities across all the all the items uh for each bidder all the all the items uh for each bidder all the all the items uh for each bidder if they're all less than zero then it if they're all less than zero then it if they're all less than zero then it means which also then means that the gap means which also then means that the gap means which also then means that the gap between the value and this sort of CDF between the value and this sort of CDF between the value and this sort of CDF correction is uh negative then you don't

[51:05] correction is uh negative then you don't correction is uh negative then you don't allocate the item so the mechanism ends. allocate the item so the mechanism ends. allocate the item so the mechanism ends. Um if uh there's at least one that's Um if uh there's at least one that's Um if uh there's at least one that's greater than zero, then you allocate the greater than zero, then you allocate the greater than zero, then you allocate the item to the buyer with the highest item to the buyer with the highest item to the buyer with the highest virtual value and then uh you they pay a virtual value and then uh you they pay a virtual value and then uh you they pay a thresholded bid which is uh computed as thresholded bid which is uh computed as thresholded bid which is uh computed as the sort of inverse the sort of inverse the sort of inverse of this uh forward function. So you can of this uh forward function. So you can of this uh forward function. So you can look at the definition. So this is a look at the definition. So this is a look at the definition. So this is a variation on second price. It's actually

[51:35] variation on second price. It's actually variation on second price. It's actually probably worth saying. So probably worth saying. So probably worth saying. So this is uh this maximum messing up the mouse here. This maximum messing up the mouse here. This maximum is computing all the virtual bids for is computing all the virtual bids for is computing all the virtual bids for everyone else and looking at the maximum everyone else and looking at the maximum everyone else and looking at the maximum that's not the winner. So it's that's not the winner. So it's that's not the winner. So it's effectively uh the second price for the effectively uh the second price for the effectively uh the second price for the virtual bids. Um and then it has to be virtual bids. Um and then it has to be virtual bids. Um and then it has to be greater than zero which is the first greater than zero which is the first greater than zero which is the first criterion here. uh and then you do sort criterion here. uh and then you do sort criterion here. uh and then you do sort of a inverse transformation back to the

[52:05] of a inverse transformation back to the of a inverse transformation back to the values and that's what they end up values and that's what they end up values and that's what they end up paying and what my showed is that if the paying and what my showed is that if the paying and what my showed is that if the bid is set up this way so this has bid is set up this way so this has bid is set up this way so this has properties that look a bit like second properties that look a bit like second properties that look a bit like second price as you might see because the price price as you might see because the price price as you might see because the price you actually pay is the maximum virtual you actually pay is the maximum virtual you actually pay is the maximum virtual bid for everyone else apart from them bid for everyone else apart from them bid for everyone else apart from them assuming they're the winner uh assuming they're the winner uh assuming they're the winner uh so what my showed is that this keeps IC so what my showed is that this keeps IC so what my showed is that this keeps IC properties so you remain incentive properties so you remain incentive properties so you remain incentive compatible compatible compatible uh Meaning the m the optimal strategy is uh Meaning the m the optimal strategy is uh Meaning the m the optimal strategy is still to bid your true value. Yet you

[52:35] still to bid your true value. Yet you still to bid your true value. Yet you can show that this is the revenue can show that this is the revenue can show that this is the revenue maximizing strategy. So this will maximizing strategy. So this will maximizing strategy. So this will maximize from the seller's point of view maximize from the seller's point of view maximize from the seller's point of view amount of revenue that they can get amount of revenue that they can get amount of revenue that they can get while ensuring that all the biders are while ensuring that all the biders are while ensuring that all the biders are still like incentivized to bid the true still like incentivized to bid the true still like incentivized to bid the true value they have for each item. value they have for each item. value they have for each item. Okay. So uh you know in a simple setting Okay. So uh you know in a simple setting Okay. So uh you know in a simple setting uh where uh buyers values are ID so uh where uh buyers values are ID so uh where uh buyers values are ID so they'll have the same distribution. It they'll have the same distribution. It they'll have the same distribution. It turns out that you can convert this into turns out that you can convert this into turns out that you can convert this into a standard second price auction uh where

[53:05] a standard second price auction uh where a standard second price auction uh where you have a reserve price of buy in you have a reserve price of buy in you have a reserve price of buy in versus zero. And you can sort of kind of versus zero. And you can sort of kind of versus zero. And you can sort of kind of see this uh because the virtual values see this uh because the virtual values see this uh because the virtual values will all be sort of offsets of each will all be sort of offsets of each will all be sort of offsets of each other. Um and the actual price being other. Um and the actual price being other. Um and the actual price being paid will look like this inverse paid will look like this inverse paid will look like this inverse function maximum of zero. So at least function maximum of zero. So at least function maximum of zero. So at least from a from a from a colloquial point of view hopefully it's colloquial point of view hopefully it's colloquial point of view hopefully it's clear why this is connected. Um yeah. clear why this is connected. Um yeah. clear why this is connected. Um yeah. Okay. And there's also work just Okay. And there's also work just Okay. And there's also work just alluding to it of the same item but alluding to it of the same item but alluding to it of the same item but multiple units of an item and how to

[53:35] multiple units of an item and how to multiple units of an item and how to think about optimal revenue maximizing think about optimal revenue maximizing think about optimal revenue maximizing incentive compatible auctions for that incentive compatible auctions for that incentive compatible auctions for that setting. I'll let you look at the setting. I'll let you look at the setting. I'll let you look at the reference if you're interested. reference if you're interested. reference if you're interested. Okay. So beyond that uh it turns out Okay. So beyond that uh it turns out Okay. So beyond that uh it turns out that you know we know how to do single that you know we know how to do single that you know we know how to do single item optimally in terms of revenue item optimally in terms of revenue item optimally in terms of revenue maximization IC. Uh it turns out uh at maximization IC. Uh it turns out uh at maximization IC. Uh it turns out uh at least I think it's still true to my least I think it's still true to my least I think it's still true to my knowledge unless something happened knowledge unless something happened knowledge unless something happened since when I looked up this literature since when I looked up this literature since when I looked up this literature and now which is minutes uh or hours and now which is minutes uh or hours and now which is minutes uh or hours maybe uh that we don't know how to do

[54:06] maybe uh that we don't know how to do maybe uh that we don't know how to do even two items optimally. Um so this may even two items optimally. Um so this may even two items optimally. Um so this may be a bit surprising but just stating as be a bit surprising but just stating as be a bit surprising but just stating as a statement of fact there's a bunch of a statement of fact there's a bunch of a statement of fact there's a bunch of work that does engage with this both in work that does engage with this both in work that does engage with this both in the economic side and in computing. Um the economic side and in computing. Um the economic side and in computing. Um and so meaningful progress on thinking and so meaningful progress on thinking and so meaningful progress on thinking about these questions but um maybe a about these questions but um maybe a about these questions but um maybe a hard interesting problem if someone is hard interesting problem if someone is hard interesting problem if someone is theoretically inclined and wants a theoretically inclined and wants a theoretically inclined and wants a really hard problem to solve. This might really hard problem to solve. This might really hard problem to solve. This might be a fun one um and maybe surprising as be a fun one um and maybe surprising as be a fun one um and maybe surprising as well right perhaps given what we said well right perhaps given what we said well right perhaps given what we said beginning and some of the description of beginning and some of the description of beginning and some of the description of the overall setting. Um

[54:39] the overall setting. Um the overall setting. Um so this also engages with uh more and so this also engages with uh more and so this also engages with uh more and more as people have connected this to um more as people have connected this to um more as people have connected this to um machine learning settings. So in machine learning settings. So in machine learning settings. So in particular as you might know uh many of particular as you might know uh many of particular as you might know uh many of the modern say ad bidding uh the modern say ad bidding uh the modern say ad bidding uh infrastructure has learning models under infrastructure has learning models under infrastructure has learning models under the hood which help uh say predict the hood which help uh say predict the hood which help uh say predict prices or predict placement. There's a prices or predict placement. There's a prices or predict placement. There's a bunch of learning under the hood. Um so bunch of learning under the hood. Um so bunch of learning under the hood. Um so there's a bunch of work that tries to there's a bunch of work that tries to there's a bunch of work that tries to connect uh learning methods with connect uh learning methods with connect uh learning methods with mechanisms and ask questions about their

[55:10] mechanisms and ask questions about their mechanisms and ask questions about their interaction. So uh for instance there interaction. So uh for instance there interaction. So uh for instance there are aspects that try to use uh online are aspects that try to use uh online are aspects that try to use uh online learning to ask questions about sort of learning to ask questions about sort of learning to ask questions about sort of revenue and bidding. Um so you know you revenue and bidding. Um so you know you revenue and bidding. Um so you know you might think of say uh buyer that's uh might think of say uh buyer that's uh might think of say uh buyer that's uh say potentially might uh choose to buy say potentially might uh choose to buy say potentially might uh choose to buy an item multiple times uh over the an item multiple times uh over the an item multiple times uh over the course of a week for instance. So they course of a week for instance. So they course of a week for instance. So they arrive they either them or for arrive they either them or for arrive they either them or for population of buyers and they uh there's population of buyers and they uh there's population of buyers and they uh there's some price for the item and they might some price for the item and they might some price for the item and they might choose whether or not to buy. So this is

[55:41] choose whether or not to buy. So this is choose whether or not to buy. So this is the version of a fixed price type of the version of a fixed price type of the version of a fixed price type of setting like I mentioned at the setting like I mentioned at the setting like I mentioned at the beginning but you can also imagine doing beginning but you can also imagine doing beginning but you can also imagine doing this within other kinds of interesting this within other kinds of interesting this within other kinds of interesting mechanisms and so there's a bunch of mechanisms and so there's a bunch of mechanisms and so there's a bunch of work engaging with how to do uh learning work engaging with how to do uh learning work engaging with how to do uh learning things in the setting. So some of the things in the setting. So some of the things in the setting. So some of the questions you might be interested in questions you might be interested in questions you might be interested in asking include um asking include um asking include um uh so learning questions regret as you uh so learning questions regret as you uh so learning questions regret as you know is one of the main ways we've know is one of the main ways we've know is one of the main ways we've already covered it in the basization already covered it in the basization already covered it in the basization work for instance that we did um last work for instance that we did um last work for instance that we did um last lecture. So this difference between the

[56:11] lecture. So this difference between the lecture. So this difference between the cumulative revenue uh for the seller cumulative revenue uh for the seller cumulative revenue uh for the seller versus the best price that they could versus the best price that they could versus the best price that they could have gotten in hindsight. And so there have gotten in hindsight. And so there have gotten in hindsight. And so there bunch of settings where this has been bunch of settings where this has been bunch of settings where this has been studied. Um there's work engaging with studied. Um there's work engaging with studied. Um there's work engaging with potentially adversarial buyer values, potentially adversarial buyer values, potentially adversarial buyer values, stoastic buyer values, maybe somewhat stoastic buyer values, maybe somewhat stoastic buyer values, maybe somewhat easier cases easier cases easier cases where buyers are uh assumed to behave where buyers are uh assumed to behave where buyers are uh assumed to behave truthfully truthfully truthfully various kinds of strategic behavior by various kinds of strategic behavior by various kinds of strategic behavior by the buyers. Um other work and maybe much the buyers. Um other work and maybe much the buyers. Um other work and maybe much more directly related to us are things

[56:43] more directly related to us are things more directly related to us are things like uh mechanisms for where the buyer like uh mechanisms for where the buyer like uh mechanisms for where the buyer has to learn how to bid. So they're has to learn how to bid. So they're has to learn how to bid. So they're engaging in the ecosystem or the engaging in the ecosystem or the engaging in the ecosystem or the mechanism over time and based on the mechanism over time and based on the mechanism over time and based on the interaction and sort of uh signals that interaction and sort of uh signals that interaction and sort of uh signals that they get from the mechanism and also so they get from the mechanism and also so they get from the mechanism and also so this is what they get from the seller this is what they get from the seller this is what they get from the seller and what they learn from the other and what they learn from the other and what they learn from the other participants. they try to update their participants. they try to update their participants. they try to update their process for uh learning how to bid. Um process for uh learning how to bid. Um process for uh learning how to bid. Um so for instance simple version of this so for instance simple version of this so for instance simple version of this is like a learn to bid setting where at is like a learn to bid setting where at is like a learn to bid setting where at the beginning the buyer knows nothing

[57:14] the beginning the buyer knows nothing the beginning the buyer knows nothing about the values for items at each about the values for items at each about the values for items at each round. Uh they only learn values for round. Uh they only learn values for round. Uh they only learn values for items that they actually win. So they items that they actually win. So they items that they actually win. So they choose something and then if they win choose something and then if they win choose something and then if they win they learn the value. If they don't win they learn the value. If they don't win they learn the value. If they don't win they don't learn anything. Um and so uh they don't learn anything. Um and so uh they don't learn anything. Um and so uh the goal is to compete with the best the goal is to compete with the best the goal is to compete with the best fixed bids in hindsight. So you know the fixed bids in hindsight. So you know the fixed bids in hindsight. So you know the optimal strategy is if I knew uh sort of optimal strategy is if I knew uh sort of optimal strategy is if I knew uh sort of true values and I could actually bid true values and I could actually bid true values and I could actually bid those and so the regret setting is again those and so the regret setting is again those and so the regret setting is again if I knew the optimal fixed bids what is if I knew the optimal fixed bids what is if I knew the optimal fixed bids what is the gap from from that strategy similar the gap from from that strategy similar the gap from from that strategy similar to again the way we've tal regret over

[57:44] to again the way we've tal regret over to again the way we've tal regret over the past couple of lectures so same idea the past couple of lectures so same idea the past couple of lectures so same idea um other interesting uh aspects of this um other interesting uh aspects of this um other interesting uh aspects of this so there's something called uh profit so there's something called uh profit so there's something called uh profit inequality kinds of problems so here inequality kinds of problems so here inequality kinds of problems so here buyers arrive in adversarial order and buyers arrive in adversarial order and buyers arrive in adversarial order and have random valuations so again have random valuations so again have random valuations so again interesting setting People have done interesting setting People have done interesting setting People have done bunch of interesting work many of them bunch of interesting work many of them bunch of interesting work many of them in computing venues asking about um uh in computing venues asking about um uh in computing venues asking about um uh like how learning again engages like how learning again engages like how learning again engages interactive mechanisms uh sector interactive mechanisms uh sector interactive mechanisms uh sector problems where uh the naming is meant to

[58:15] problems where uh the naming is meant to problems where uh the naming is meant to allude to buyers arriving in random allude to buyers arriving in random allude to buyers arriving in random order. So the gap here is again the two order. So the gap here is again the two order. So the gap here is again the two things to intervene on are the order in things to intervene on are the order in things to intervene on are the order in which buyers arrive and then the which buyers arrive and then the which buyers arrive and then the valuations. So the distinction here is valuations. So the distinction here is valuations. So the distinction here is in profit settings the buyers are in profit settings the buyers are in profit settings the buyers are adversarial in terms of ordering but the adversarial in terms of ordering but the adversarial in terms of ordering but the valuations are some generic distribution valuations are some generic distribution valuations are some generic distribution and sector problems the buyers arrive and sector problems the buyers arrive and sector problems the buyers arrive randomly but the valuations are randomly but the valuations are randomly but the valuations are adversarial. They're thought to be some adversarial. They're thought to be some adversarial. They're thought to be some notion of worst case and so people have notion of worst case and so people have notion of worst case and so people have done lots of work in trying to engage

[58:45] done lots of work in trying to engage done lots of work in trying to engage with how uh learning interacts with um with how uh learning interacts with um with how uh learning interacts with um mechanism in those settings. mechanism in those settings. mechanism in those settings. um also related to stuff we've covered um also related to stuff we've covered um also related to stuff we've covered in class. in class. in class. Um so you know you can ask about Um so you know you can ask about Um so you know you can ask about learning with various kinds of revealed learning with various kinds of revealed learning with various kinds of revealed preferences. So similar to uh some what preferences. So similar to uh some what preferences. So similar to uh some what we already discussed in economic we already discussed in economic we already discussed in economic decision-m uh but here you know pricing decision-m uh but here you know pricing decision-m uh but here you know pricing tied in with um tied in with um tied in with um or I guess you get to observe people's

[59:15] or I guess you get to observe people's or I guess you get to observe people's individual buyers actions over individual buyers actions over individual buyers actions over iterations. Now you want to predict iterations. Now you want to predict iterations. Now you want to predict their behavior in the future and then their behavior in the future and then their behavior in the future and then think through what the mechanism might think through what the mechanism might think through what the mechanism might be for pricing in these settings. be for pricing in these settings. be for pricing in these settings. Okay. Um so lots of interesting Okay. Um so lots of interesting Okay. Um so lots of interesting questions many of them learn in questions many of them learn in questions many of them learn in theoretic. Um so things like how many theoretic. Um so things like how many theoretic. Um so things like how many training examples do you need? So training examples do you need? So training examples do you need? So standard kind of sample complexity kinds standard kind of sample complexity kinds standard kind of sample complexity kinds of questions you might ask in a learning of questions you might ask in a learning of questions you might ask in a learning setting. Um algorithmic questions. How setting. Um algorithmic questions. How setting. Um algorithmic questions. How do I learn a preference function in this do I learn a preference function in this do I learn a preference function in this setting that captures the buying setting that captures the buying setting that captures the buying behavior and how does that tie to

[59:46] behavior and how does that tie to behavior and how does that tie to mechanistic choices? So, lots of fun mechanistic choices? So, lots of fun mechanistic choices? So, lots of fun work in this area. Again, as mentioned work in this area. Again, as mentioned work in this area. Again, as mentioned at the beginning, this is a full rich at the beginning, this is a full rich at the beginning, this is a full rich area which we're not engaging with, but area which we're not engaging with, but area which we're not engaging with, but hopefully we can pull nuggets of ideas hopefully we can pull nuggets of ideas hopefully we can pull nuggets of ideas here for um how we think about the here for um how we think about the here for um how we think about the purpose of this class. And then I think purpose of this class. And then I think purpose of this class. And then I think there's an opportunity for deep dive for there's an opportunity for deep dive for there's an opportunity for deep dive for people who find this kind of material people who find this kind of material people who find this kind of material interesting. I think there lots of interesting. I think there lots of interesting. I think there lots of lessons. The reason I'm presenting this lessons. The reason I'm presenting this lessons. The reason I'm presenting this actually is I think there are lots of actually is I think there are lots of actually is I think there are lots of lessons for the task of like uh lessons for the task of like uh lessons for the task of like uh preference elicitation and preference

[1:00:16] preference elicitation and preference preference elicitation and preference optimization in AI that I think is under optimization in AI that I think is under optimization in AI that I think is under the translation is under uh the translation is under uh the translation is under uh underutilized and so I think they're underutilized and so I think they're underutilized and so I think they're interesting things to learn from this interesting things to learn from this interesting things to learn from this literature. Um one example um uh pair literature. Um one example um uh pair literature. Um one example um uh pair wise feedback options for wise feedback options for wise feedback options for um digital good digital good settings um um digital good digital good settings um um digital good digital good settings um which mixes a bit of illustration some which mixes a bit of illustration some which mixes a bit of illustration some of the online learning bandit things bit of the online learning bandit things bit of the online learning bandit things bit of mechanism design is sort of one of mechanism design is sort of one of mechanism design is sort of one example of all this these things coming example of all this these things coming example of all this these things coming together in a preference estimation together in a preference estimation together in a preference estimation optimization setting um so this is

[1:00:49] optimization setting um so this is optimization setting um so this is motivated for digital goods um so things motivated for digital goods um so things motivated for digital goods um so things like you know what we've already engaged like you know what we've already engaged like you know what we've already engaged with a lot's class things prompt with a lot's class things prompt with a lot's class things prompt completions, synthesized images, stuff completions, synthesized images, stuff completions, synthesized images, stuff like that. Um, like that. Um, like that. Um, but you could also imagine using this but you could also imagine using this but you could also imagine using this for things like ad placements and and for things like ad placements and and for things like ad placements and and other um other settings. I think uh in other um other settings. I think uh in other um other settings. I think uh in standard auction and bid settings, the standard auction and bid settings, the standard auction and bid settings, the market is obvious. the biders market is obvious. the biders market is obvious. the biders uh get to know ahead of time the item

[1:01:19] uh get to know ahead of time the item uh get to know ahead of time the item that they're bidding on uh and something that they're bidding on uh and something that they're bidding on uh and something about the ecosystem and often we'll know about the ecosystem and often we'll know about the ecosystem and often we'll know the mechanism actually as well. So they the mechanism actually as well. So they the mechanism actually as well. So they know a lot about the infrastructure know a lot about the infrastructure know a lot about the infrastructure saying uh no if I'm going to buy ads on saying uh no if I'm going to buy ads on saying uh no if I'm going to buy ads on Google Adwords or whatever or or um I'm Google Adwords or whatever or or um I'm Google Adwords or whatever or or um I'm selling items on eBay and I want to sort selling items on eBay and I want to sort selling items on eBay and I want to sort of build those auction systems in of build those auction systems in of build those auction systems in digital goods. uh you don't know how digital goods. uh you don't know how digital goods. uh you don't know how good the response is going to be till good the response is going to be till good the response is going to be till you've actually completed the pro. So you've actually completed the pro. So you've actually completed the pro. So the work has been done essentially, the work has been done essentially, the work has been done essentially, right? So I'm looking to price uh you

[1:01:52] right? So I'm looking to price uh you right? So I'm looking to price uh you know you can imagine from a seller point know you can imagine from a seller point know you can imagine from a seller point of view I'm um I'm building I'm open AI of view I'm um I'm building I'm open AI of view I'm um I'm building I'm open AI or some other big generative model or some other big generative model or some other big generative model builder. I'm looking to um builder. I'm looking to um builder. I'm looking to um uh assign some price for a certain uh assign some price for a certain uh assign some price for a certain prompt completion. This is not how it's prompt completion. This is not how it's prompt completion. This is not how it's done now by the way as all of you know. done now by the way as all of you know. done now by the way as all of you know. Right now it's all fixed price no Right now it's all fixed price no Right now it's all fixed price no options. Uh but you could imagine options. Uh but you could imagine options. Uh but you could imagine perhaps economic incentives lead to um perhaps economic incentives lead to um perhaps economic incentives lead to um variable pricing for comp completions. variable pricing for comp completions. variable pricing for comp completions. Uh which a reasonable way to think about Uh which a reasonable way to think about Uh which a reasonable way to think about going about this might be some kind of

[1:02:23] going about this might be some kind of going about this might be some kind of something like this like an auction. Um something like this like an auction. Um something like this like an auction. Um the challenge with an auction of course the challenge with an auction of course the challenge with an auction of course is that I don't know how good the is that I don't know how good the is that I don't know how good the completion will be before I see it. So completion will be before I see it. So completion will be before I see it. So all I get to see I only get information all I get to see I only get information all I get to see I only get information after I've already sort of the seller after I've already sort of the seller after I've already sort of the seller has already done the work. And so uh if has already done the work. And so uh if has already done the work. And so uh if I was looking for pricing a signal of I was looking for pricing a signal of I was looking for pricing a signal of whether to like do the work or not in whether to like do the work or not in whether to like do the work or not in some ways this invalidates some ways this invalidates some ways this invalidates the whole idea of like um choosing the whole idea of like um choosing the whole idea of like um choosing whether or not to say complete a certain whether or not to say complete a certain whether or not to say complete a certain prompt based on uh whether the buyer is

[1:02:55] prompt based on uh whether the buyer is prompt based on uh whether the buyer is willing to pay a certain amount for it. willing to pay a certain amount for it. willing to pay a certain amount for it. Is this clear? Is this clear? Is this clear? Another word salady thing, but Another word salady thing, but Another word salady thing, but yes. So, so one more time, uh, at least yes. So, so one more time, uh, at least yes. So, so one more time, uh, at least for myself, even if maybe you guys I'm for myself, even if maybe you guys I'm for myself, even if maybe you guys I'm hearing I'm seeing nods, but I'm hoping hearing I'm seeing nods, but I'm hoping hearing I'm seeing nods, but I'm hoping they're not just polite nods. Um, so they're not just polite nods. Um, so they're not just polite nods. Um, so mechanism, uh, is that, uh, the mechanism, uh, is that, uh, the mechanism, uh, is that, uh, the seller of the digital good has to, um, seller of the digital good has to, um, seller of the digital good has to, um, decide how to price things like prompt

[1:03:26] decide how to price things like prompt decide how to price things like prompt completions. Um, completions. Um, completions. Um, ideally you'd want to do this before ideally you'd want to do this before ideally you'd want to do this before actually completing the prompt. Um, and actually completing the prompt. Um, and actually completing the prompt. Um, and in order to do this, the seller has to in order to do this, the seller has to in order to do this, the seller has to know what this the actual prompt know what this the actual prompt know what this the actual prompt completion will be. So, there's a completion will be. So, there's a completion will be. So, there's a mismatch of information here because the mismatch of information here because the mismatch of information here because the seller doesn't know the prompt seller doesn't know the prompt seller doesn't know the prompt completion until the prompt completion completion until the prompt completion completion until the prompt completion is actually done. And so, they won't is actually done. And so, they won't is actually done. And so, they won't they don't know the value that they they don't know the value that they they don't know the value that they would have for the completion until the would have for the completion until the would have for the completion until the work is actually done. Which means that work is actually done. Which means that work is actually done. Which means that the buyer can't decide ahead of time the buyer can't decide ahead of time the buyer can't decide ahead of time whether or not uh sorry, the seller I'm whether or not uh sorry, the seller I'm whether or not uh sorry, the seller I'm mixing bills. the buyer doesn't know

[1:03:56] mixing bills. the buyer doesn't know mixing bills. the buyer doesn't know ahead of time whether they want to buy a ahead of time whether they want to buy a ahead of time whether they want to buy a certain completion. The seller uh isn't certain completion. The seller uh isn't certain completion. The seller uh isn't able to make the decision of whether or able to make the decision of whether or able to make the decision of whether or not to sell to the buyer at a certain not to sell to the buyer at a certain not to sell to the buyer at a certain price because the buyer can't figure out price because the buyer can't figure out price because the buyer can't figure out whether this particular completion is whether this particular completion is whether this particular completion is good or so this weird cycle thing of good or so this weird cycle thing of good or so this weird cycle thing of someone has to make the decision first someone has to make the decision first someone has to make the decision first and it's unclear how to engage in this and it's unclear how to engage in this and it's unclear how to engage in this setting. Okay, so this is uh again setting. Okay, so this is uh again setting. Okay, so this is uh again related to many of the problems we've related to many of the problems we've related to many of the problems we've been discussing, but the main point is been discussing, but the main point is been discussing, but the main point is to argue that this is somewhat unique to argue that this is somewhat unique to argue that this is somewhat unique compared to the generic auction setting

[1:04:26] compared to the generic auction setting compared to the generic auction setting because there's this additional missing because there's this additional missing because there's this additional missing information because you have this sort information because you have this sort information because you have this sort of uh unlike standard settings uh of uh unlike standard settings uh of uh unlike standard settings uh pricing and actually the item is pricing and actually the item is pricing and actually the item is actually not a real thing until the actually not a real thing until the actually not a real thing until the process is complete. So it makes the process is complete. So it makes the process is complete. So it makes the pricing a bit complicated. pricing a bit complicated. pricing a bit complicated. &gt;&gt; I I know I shouldn't. &gt;&gt; I I know I shouldn't. &gt;&gt; I I know I shouldn't. &gt;&gt; Yeah, please. Please. &gt;&gt; Yeah, please. Please. &gt;&gt; Yeah, please. Please. &gt;&gt; Hey, I've more recently been calling &gt;&gt; Hey, I've more recently been calling &gt;&gt; Hey, I've more recently been calling this like it is used in the literature this like it is used in the literature this like it is used in the literature too, just information asymmetry between too, just information asymmetry between too, just information asymmetry between the the two parties. Like at the very the the two parties. Like at the very the the two parties. Like at the very beginning you had this like so the bees

[1:04:56] beginning you had this like so the bees beginning you had this like so the bees auction. auction. auction. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; Yeah. &gt;&gt; An example in that context is one time &gt;&gt; An example in that context is one time &gt;&gt; An example in that context is one time they sold a painting and as soon as the they sold a painting and as soon as the they sold a painting and as soon as the auction was completed the painting auction was completed the painting auction was completed the painting automated itself and destroyed it. automated itself and destroyed it. automated itself and destroyed it. &gt;&gt; All right. I remember this a recent &gt;&gt; All right. I remember this a recent &gt;&gt; All right. I remember this a recent thing. Yeah. thing. Yeah. thing. Yeah. Okay, that's a fun one. Okay, that's a fun one. Okay, that's a fun one. I guess if the seller if the buyer knew I guess if the seller if the buyer knew I guess if the seller if the buyer knew ahead of time, they might have changed ahead of time, they might have changed ahead of time, they might have changed their valuation for uh my memory is that their valuation for uh my memory is that their valuation for uh my memory is that this wasn't known, right? this wasn't known, right? this wasn't known, right? &gt;&gt; This is a surprise. &gt;&gt; This is a surprise. &gt;&gt; This is a surprise. &gt;&gt; Okay. Does anyone people know the story?

[1:05:27] &gt;&gt; Okay. Does anyone people know the story? &gt;&gt; Okay. Does anyone people know the story? It's a real thing. So, It's a real thing. So, It's a real thing. So, &gt;&gt; token is it some related to some NFT &gt;&gt; token is it some related to some NFT &gt;&gt; token is it some related to some NFT token? token? token? &gt;&gt; Uh, &gt;&gt; Uh, &gt;&gt; Uh, &gt;&gt; no. No, this was a real painting. So, so &gt;&gt; no. No, this was a real painting. So, so &gt;&gt; no. No, this was a real painting. So, so it was a it was a it was a &gt;&gt; it just like as soon as it was sold like &gt;&gt; it just like as soon as it was sold like &gt;&gt; it just like as soon as it was sold like it was actually like a like a like a it was actually like a like a like a it was actually like a like a like a paper shredder. paper shredder. paper shredder. &gt;&gt; So, the art included destroying the art. &gt;&gt; So, the art included destroying the art. &gt;&gt; So, the art included destroying the art. You're you're paying for the art being You're you're paying for the art being You're you're paying for the art being destroyed in front of you. Uh so, uh you destroyed in front of you. Uh so, uh you destroyed in front of you. Uh so, uh you know, as an artist, you can imagine this know, as an artist, you can imagine this know, as an artist, you can imagine this may look completely reasonable, but from may look completely reasonable, but from may look completely reasonable, but from a buyer's perspective, uh this may seem

[1:05:58] a buyer's perspective, uh this may seem a buyer's perspective, uh this may seem adversarial. Uh but the point here is is adversarial. Uh but the point here is is adversarial. Uh but the point here is is that uh you know in terms of limited that uh you know in terms of limited that uh you know in terms of limited information I guess is a good way. information I guess is a good way. information I guess is a good way. &gt;&gt; So yeah but this happens sometimes if I &gt;&gt; So yeah but this happens sometimes if I &gt;&gt; So yeah but this happens sometimes if I talk to one or something you put in a talk to one or something you put in a talk to one or something you put in a huge prompt it thinks for like 2 minutes huge prompt it thinks for like 2 minutes huge prompt it thinks for like 2 minutes and then it spits out zero tokens. and then it spits out zero tokens. and then it spits out zero tokens. &gt;&gt; Yeah &gt;&gt; Yeah &gt;&gt; Yeah &gt;&gt; indeed I think that's a great actually &gt;&gt; indeed I think that's a great actually &gt;&gt; indeed I think that's a great actually very modern that was not available when very modern that was not available when very modern that was not available when we did this. That's a great example in we did this. That's a great example in we did this. That's a great example in of this issue. Okay. Um okay so what

[1:06:29] of this issue. Okay. Um okay so what of this issue. Okay. Um okay so what needs to happen the biders have to needs to happen the biders have to needs to happen the biders have to submit offers uh and you can imagine in submit offers uh and you can imagine in submit offers uh and you can imagine in this in a competitive setting where uh this in a competitive setting where uh this in a competitive setting where uh the thing that's forcing pricing is say the thing that's forcing pricing is say the thing that's forcing pricing is say computational resources right so you computational resources right so you computational resources right so you have to decide you get a billion have to decide you get a billion have to decide you get a billion requests you have to decide a small requests you have to decide a small requests you have to decide a small subset of these uh again this is not subset of these uh again this is not subset of these uh again this is not what's happening now but you can imagine what's happening now but you can imagine what's happening now but you can imagine the way things are being used that like the way things are being used that like the way things are being used that like this may be part of a um if there are this may be part of a um if there are this may be part of a um if there are resource constraints Then one way to resource constraints Then one way to resource constraints Then one way to mitigate resource constraints is to have

[1:06:59] mitigate resource constraints is to have mitigate resource constraints is to have adaptive pricing that may be tied to adaptive pricing that may be tied to adaptive pricing that may be tied to people's value for the completion. And people's value for the completion. And people's value for the completion. And the challenge here is again this the challenge here is again this the challenge here is again this information as symmetry. So biders have information as symmetry. So biders have information as symmetry. So biders have to submit offers to fulfill requests to submit offers to fulfill requests to submit offers to fulfill requests before actually seeing what the before actually seeing what the before actually seeing what the responses are. And then there's this responses are. And then there's this responses are. And then there's this resource behind the scenes that needs to resource behind the scenes that needs to resource behind the scenes that needs to be allocated. So what completion do you be allocated. So what completion do you be allocated. So what completion do you do you make? So the question is is do you make? So the question is is do you make? So the question is is trying to decide fair pricing trying to decide fair pricing trying to decide fair pricing um in the ideal setting and in standard um in the ideal setting and in standard um in the ideal setting and in standard uh

[1:07:32] what you don't get as much uh as you'd what you don't get as much uh as you'd get in a standard auction setting is get in a standard auction setting is get in a standard auction setting is again uh users don't have having again uh users don't have having again uh users don't have having complete information and so you want to complete information and so you want to complete information and so you want to think of some way to improve or increase think of some way to improve or increase think of some way to improve or increase the um user information uh to form their the um user information uh to form their the um user information uh to form their valuation and you'd also like for the valuation and you'd also like for the valuation and you'd also like for the whole mechanism to be incentive whole mechanism to be incentive whole mechanism to be incentive compatible as we already discussed. Uh compatible as we already discussed. Uh compatible as we already discussed. Uh so that biders whoever is engaging this so that biders whoever is engaging this so that biders whoever is engaging this mechanism is incentivized or you know mechanism is incentivized or you know mechanism is incentivized or you know their optimal strategy is to bid the their optimal strategy is to bid the their optimal strategy is to bid the true value for the completion which

[1:08:02] true value for the completion which true value for the completion which ahead of time they don't know. This is ahead of time they don't know. This is ahead of time they don't know. This is of course a challenge of course a challenge of course a challenge and so the setting uh more formally is and so the setting uh more formally is and so the setting uh more formally is that we have a set of users. We have the that we have a set of users. We have the that we have a set of users. We have the IP user at time t. Um this exists a IP user at time t. Um this exists a IP user at time t. Um this exists a mechanism that uh will choose to fulfill mechanism that uh will choose to fulfill mechanism that uh will choose to fulfill or not fulfill a request that comes in. or not fulfill a request that comes in. or not fulfill a request that comes in. So this is request x uh for the i user So this is request x uh for the i user So this is request x uh for the i user at time t. Um the agents get utility at time t. Um the agents get utility at time t. Um the agents get utility some true utility muit and uh reports a

[1:08:36] some true utility muit and uh reports a some true utility muit and uh reports a reported utility rit for the allocation. reported utility rit for the allocation. reported utility rit for the allocation. So whether or not the request was So whether or not the request was So whether or not the request was actually completed and we want to design actually completed and we want to design actually completed and we want to design an auction that given only observations an auction that given only observations an auction that given only observations of request and reported utilities. Um of request and reported utilities. Um of request and reported utilities. Um we good here in we'll define as sort of we good here in we'll define as sort of we good here in we'll define as sort of uh utility maximizing and incentive uh utility maximizing and incentive uh utility maximizing and incentive compatible. compatible. compatible. So you want that again uh from a So you want that again uh from a So you want that again uh from a individual and like uh like revenue

[1:09:08] individual and like uh like revenue individual and like uh like revenue utility point of view we maximize utility point of view we maximize utility point of view we maximize globally as mentioned before and then globally as mentioned before and then globally as mentioned before and then from a uh individual from a uh individual from a uh individual um sort of stakeholder point of view you um sort of stakeholder point of view you um sort of stakeholder point of view you know they should actually state their know they should actually state their know they should actually state their true value as opposed to uh try to lie. true value as opposed to uh try to lie. true value as opposed to uh try to lie. So compared to a lot of the existing So compared to a lot of the existing So compared to a lot of the existing work some of the gaps uh include work some of the gaps uh include work some of the gaps uh include uh often we assume that agents know uh often we assume that agents know uh often we assume that agents know their value for outcomes as mentioned in their value for outcomes as mentioned in their value for outcomes as mentioned in some of the discussion earlier. Um

[1:09:40] some of the discussion earlier. Um some of the discussion earlier. Um you also have uncertainty that plays a you also have uncertainty that plays a you also have uncertainty that plays a big role here uh particularly in these big role here uh particularly in these big role here uh particularly in these kinds of stoastic generative model kinds of stoastic generative model kinds of stoastic generative model settings. Um so settings. Um so settings. Um so the mechanism now needs to be dynamic um the mechanism now needs to be dynamic um the mechanism now needs to be dynamic um in settings where the agent can't know in settings where the agent can't know in settings where the agent can't know the value ahead of time and the value the value ahead of time and the value the value ahead of time and the value might change over time based on context might change over time based on context might change over time based on context and things like that and in in addition and things like that and in in addition and things like that and in in addition outcomes may be uncertain in various outcomes may be uncertain in various outcomes may be uncertain in various ways. So as you might imagine so there's ways. So as you might imagine so there's ways. So as you might imagine so there's a challenging problem and somewhat a challenging problem and somewhat a challenging problem and somewhat distinct from at least what we've distinct from at least what we've distinct from at least what we've covered today in terms of existing

[1:10:11] covered today in terms of existing covered today in terms of existing standard mechanism settings. Um so the standard mechanism settings. Um so the standard mechanism settings. Um so the proposed mechanism is a is based on uh proposed mechanism is a is based on uh proposed mechanism is a is based on uh pair wise preferences and other kinds of pair wise preferences and other kinds of pair wise preferences and other kinds of partial preferences. Um and so it's this partial preferences. Um and so it's this partial preferences. Um and so it's this loop of loop of loop of um um um like an initial stage where like an initial stage where like an initial stage where uh you try to learn uh the potential uh you try to learn uh the potential uh you try to learn uh the potential value of across items. So you want to value of across items. So you want to value of across items. So you want to learn ideally you want to learn a learn ideally you want to learn a learn ideally you want to learn a function such that you can predict ahead

[1:10:42] function such that you can predict ahead function such that you can predict ahead of time the value for a particular of time the value for a particular of time the value for a particular response request and so uh this is a response request and so uh this is a response request and so uh this is a learning problem behind the scenes of learning problem behind the scenes of learning problem behind the scenes of sort of taking x and predicting the sort of taking x and predicting the sort of taking x and predicting the value and and uh the signal that you get value and and uh the signal that you get value and and uh the signal that you get back are um back are um back are um set up as things like pair wise set up as things like pair wise set up as things like pair wise preferences or like uh thumbs up thumbs preferences or like uh thumbs up thumbs preferences or like uh thumbs up thumbs down for a particular pricing. So you down for a particular pricing. So you down for a particular pricing. So you might ask for instance from the buyer might ask for instance from the buyer might ask for instance from the buyer you know would you like this or this as you know would you like this or this as you know would you like this or this as a completion to your prompt as we a completion to your prompt as we a completion to your prompt as we discussed in an example for those of you

[1:11:13] discussed in an example for those of you discussed in an example for those of you in that class uh and I imagine the same in that class uh and I imagine the same in that class uh and I imagine the same is true here there settings where the is true here there settings where the is true here there settings where the buyer might prefer this or prefer that buyer might prefer this or prefer that buyer might prefer this or prefer that so given the last lecture actually so given the last lecture actually so given the last lecture actually completely believe that now it's maybe completely believe that now it's maybe completely believe that now it's maybe uniform across this group uh those of uniform across this group uh those of uniform across this group uh those of you that weren't here we did uh inclass you that weren't here we did uh inclass you that weren't here we did uh inclass pairwise and people argued strongly for pairwise and people argued strongly for pairwise and people argued strongly for very different very different very different for a different thing. So let's just say for a different thing. So let's just say for a different thing. So let's just say you know individually high variance or you know individually high variance or you know individually high variance or you could ask questions as you know if I

[1:11:43] you could ask questions as you know if I you could ask questions as you know if I synthesize this would you pay $2 thumbs synthesize this would you pay $2 thumbs synthesize this would you pay $2 thumbs up thumbs down. So this thought of as up thumbs down. So this thought of as up thumbs down. So this thought of as like low signal responses to various like low signal responses to various like low signal responses to various kinds of simple pair wise type queries. kinds of simple pair wise type queries. kinds of simple pair wise type queries. Um and so the mechanism under the hood Um and so the mechanism under the hood Um and so the mechanism under the hood is again built on second price. uh but is again built on second price. uh but is again built on second price. uh but now because the prices are not known now because the prices are not known now because the prices are not known ahead of time we have to use prediction ahead of time we have to use prediction ahead of time we have to use prediction of the prices because again you know you of the prices because again you know you of the prices because again you know you don't know the price for completion till don't know the price for completion till don't know the price for completion till you've actually asked it and so uh you've actually asked it and so uh you've actually asked it and so uh there's a initial learning stage and

[1:12:14] there's a initial learning stage and there's a initial learning stage and then the claims are sort of uh include well essentially the claim is include well essentially the claim is sort of once you've seen enough examples sort of once you've seen enough examples sort of once you've seen enough examples in the setting that you should in the setting that you should in the setting that you should essentially be able to uh predict the essentially be able to uh predict the essentially be able to uh predict the offer second price offer well enough. So offer second price offer well enough. So offer second price offer well enough. So predict the values well enough that if I predict the values well enough that if I predict the values well enough that if I use a second price offer for pricing use a second price offer for pricing use a second price offer for pricing that I will uh satisfy the properties that I will uh satisfy the properties that I will uh satisfy the properties that I want which are again uh high that I want which are again uh high that I want which are again uh high revenue and uh incentive compatibility.

[1:12:45] revenue and uh incentive compatibility. revenue and uh incentive compatibility. So under the hood the key things are So under the hood the key things are So under the hood the key things are predicting learning to predict user predicting learning to predict user predicting learning to predict user evaluations uh based on responses like evaluations uh based on responses like evaluations uh based on responses like the ones I just showed sort of uh pair the ones I just showed sort of uh pair the ones I just showed sort of uh pair wise preference and thumbs up thumbs wise preference and thumbs up thumbs wise preference and thumbs up thumbs down and then uh yeah I guess that's the down and then uh yeah I guess that's the down and then uh yeah I guess that's the main thing and then the actual mechanism main thing and then the actual mechanism main thing and then the actual mechanism being use the highest predicted second being use the highest predicted second being use the highest predicted second highest predicted offer for a particular highest predicted offer for a particular highest predicted offer for a particular completion. So in real world use case completion. So in real world use case completion. So in real world use case mechanism is behind some silo. I as a mechanism is behind some silo. I as a mechanism is behind some silo. I as a user come in. I ask uh for a particular

[1:13:16] user come in. I ask uh for a particular user come in. I ask uh for a particular completion. I give you my X. The completion. I give you my X. The completion. I give you my X. The mechanism predicts what they think the mechanism predicts what they think the mechanism predicts what they think the value I would have for the completion of value I would have for the completion of value I would have for the completion of that X and does this for everyone in that X and does this for everyone in that X and does this for everyone in this room and then calculates the second this room and then calculates the second this room and then calculates the second highest predicted offer and then charges highest predicted offer and then charges highest predicted offer and then charges me the second or sorry charges the me the second or sorry charges the me the second or sorry charges the winner. Let's assume I'm not the winner. winner. Let's assume I'm not the winner. winner. Let's assume I'm not the winner. Whoever is the winner of that Whoever is the winner of that Whoever is the winner of that interaction. So whoever has the second interaction. So whoever has the second interaction. So whoever has the second highest whoever has the highest highest whoever has the highest highest whoever has the highest predicted offer wins the auction and predicted offer wins the auction and predicted offer wins the auction and then they pay you the second highest then they pay you the second highest then they pay you the second highest predicted offer. predicted offer. predicted offer. Okay. So uh this is a a mechanism you

[1:13:47] Okay. So uh this is a a mechanism you Okay. So uh this is a a mechanism you can use for direct pricing. Uh so as a can use for direct pricing. Uh so as a can use for direct pricing. Uh so as a way to like you know do things in uh way to like you know do things in uh way to like you know do things in uh information asymmetric settings like information asymmetric settings like information asymmetric settings like digital good auctions or if uh like you digital good auctions or if uh like you digital good auctions or if uh like you we talked about earlier I love that we talked about earlier I love that we talked about earlier I love that example your auction house and uh you example your auction house and uh you example your auction house and uh you know you might sell paintings that may know you might sell paintings that may know you might sell paintings that may be destroyed. I actually wonder what be destroyed. I actually wonder what be destroyed. I actually wonder what happened to auctions after that. It's happened to auctions after that. It's happened to auctions after that. It's such a fascinating story. Um anyways such a fascinating story. Um anyways such a fascinating story. Um anyways it's weird. it's weird. it's weird. &gt;&gt; I haven't followed up. I know of the &gt;&gt; I haven't followed up. I know of the &gt;&gt; I haven't followed up. I know of the story but I don't know the rest of story but I don't know the rest of story but I don't know the rest of &gt;&gt; like that painting Vansky became so

[1:14:17] &gt;&gt; like that painting Vansky became so &gt;&gt; like that painting Vansky became so popular. popular. popular. &gt;&gt; I think it was Vansky one. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I think it was Vansky one. Yeah. Yeah. &gt;&gt; I think it was Vansky one. Yeah. Yeah. Exactly. Exactly. Exactly. &gt;&gt; In time, uh, it game came and it was &gt;&gt; In time, uh, it game came and it was &gt;&gt; In time, uh, it game came and it was auctioned much more because now it had auctioned much more because now it had auctioned much more because now it had historical historical historical &gt;&gt; Oh, interesting. Oh, that's fun. Okay, &gt;&gt; Oh, interesting. Oh, that's fun. Okay, &gt;&gt; Oh, interesting. Oh, that's fun. Okay, maybe it's a maybe it's a maybe it's a that would be a fun meta mechanism here that would be a fun meta mechanism here that would be a fun meta mechanism here like intentionally destroying things to like intentionally destroying things to like intentionally destroying things to raise prices. raise prices. raise prices. So, I guess So, I guess So, I guess &gt;&gt; no, for sure. &gt;&gt; no, for sure. &gt;&gt; no, for sure. &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, &gt;&gt; Yeah, I think particularly in things like art I think particularly in things like art I think particularly in things like art where valuations are Yeah, exactly.

[1:14:47] where valuations are Yeah, exactly. where valuations are Yeah, exactly. um fun uh individual valuations. um fun uh individual valuations. um fun uh individual valuations. Anyways, what I wanted to say here is um Anyways, what I wanted to say here is um Anyways, what I wanted to say here is um we applied this to maybe a interesting we applied this to maybe a interesting we applied this to maybe a interesting alternative setting where instead of alternative setting where instead of alternative setting where instead of trying to trying to trying to price items uh for user completions, we price items uh for user completions, we price items uh for user completions, we wanted to try for the opposites. wanted to try for the opposites. wanted to try for the opposites. uh here we're interested in uh the fact uh here we're interested in uh the fact uh here we're interested in uh the fact that you know that you know that you know uh a lot of what needs to happen for

[1:15:17] uh a lot of what needs to happen for uh a lot of what needs to happen for many of the modern geni systems include many of the modern geni systems include many of the modern geni systems include labeling um potentially toxic or labeling um potentially toxic or labeling um potentially toxic or psychologically um difficult material psychologically um difficult material psychologically um difficult material both text and image completions and um both text and image completions and um both text and image completions and um one of the ways you could imagine one of the ways you could imagine one of the ways you could imagine engaging in this and I I want to be engaging in this and I I want to be engaging in this and I I want to be careful to state that this is not a like careful to state that this is not a like careful to state that this is not a like a a perfect solution. This is a this may a a perfect solution. This is a this may a a perfect solution. This is a this may be useful as one of the levers to um be useful as one of the levers to um be useful as one of the levers to um engage with potential psychologically

[1:15:49] engage with potential psychologically engage with potential psychologically damaging conclusions is that if you damaging conclusions is that if you damaging conclusions is that if you think that um think that um think that um uh you can connect uh you can connect uh you can connect um individual harm to some economic um individual harm to some economic um individual harm to some economic value. And again, this is not a value. And again, this is not a value. And again, this is not a normative claim that this is a normative claim that this is a normative claim that this is a necessarily a good idea, but in certain necessarily a good idea, but in certain necessarily a good idea, but in certain settings, this may be reasonable. Um, if settings, this may be reasonable. Um, if settings, this may be reasonable. Um, if that is true, then you can imagine that is true, then you can imagine that is true, then you can imagine paying people uh paying people uh paying people uh tied to how much um they might suffer

[1:16:21] tied to how much um they might suffer tied to how much um they might suffer harm for a particular completion. So, harm for a particular completion. So, harm for a particular completion. So, you know, if you're going to do a you know, if you're going to do a you know, if you're going to do a particular completion and it's going to particular completion and it's going to particular completion and it's going to be one that causes you significant harm be one that causes you significant harm be one that causes you significant harm that you can imagine the price for that, that you can imagine the price for that, that you can imagine the price for that, sorry, the price of that labeling might sorry, the price of that labeling might sorry, the price of that labeling might be much much higher than for either the be much much higher than for either the be much much higher than for either the same individual with a less sensitive same individual with a less sensitive same individual with a less sensitive completion or a different individual completion or a different individual completion or a different individual that just has a different uh profile and that just has a different uh profile and that just has a different uh profile and different sensitivity to different different sensitivity to different different sensitivity to different amounts of difficult labeling. Um, so amounts of difficult labeling. Um, so amounts of difficult labeling. Um, so there a bunch of ways to to engage with there a bunch of ways to to engage with there a bunch of ways to to engage with this question. Again, I'm repeating this question. Again, I'm repeating this question. Again, I'm repeating maybe for a third time. uh this is

[1:16:52] maybe for a third time. uh this is maybe for a third time. uh this is thought of as a interesting proposal not thought of as a interesting proposal not thought of as a interesting proposal not as a this is the solution for as a this is the solution for as a this is the solution for everything. I think there are lots of everything. I think there are lots of everything. I think there are lots of levers to engage with with asking this levers to engage with with asking this levers to engage with with asking this question of can we curate the labeling question of can we curate the labeling question of can we curate the labeling ecosystem to be less psychologically ecosystem to be less psychologically ecosystem to be less psychologically damaging. I think that's the key damaging. I think that's the key damaging. I think that's the key question. But one interesting potential question. But one interesting potential question. But one interesting potential lever is uh using um uh adaptive payment lever is uh using um uh adaptive payment lever is uh using um uh adaptive payment systems that adapt to potential uh systems that adapt to potential uh systems that adapt to potential uh individual risk or harm from a individual risk or harm from a individual risk or harm from a particular lab. And so this can be tied particular lab. And so this can be tied particular lab. And so this can be tied for instance you can make a fairness

[1:17:22] for instance you can make a fairness for instance you can make a fairness argument. So you can think about this as argument. So you can think about this as argument. So you can think about this as like fairness you might argue for like fairness you might argue for like fairness you might argue for instance that fairness means that uh instance that fairness means that uh instance that fairness means that uh your payment should be uh correlated your payment should be uh correlated your payment should be uh correlated with how much harm you might be with how much harm you might be with how much harm you might be suffering from uh engaging in that task. suffering from uh engaging in that task. suffering from uh engaging in that task. And so even here you might imagine there And so even here you might imagine there And so even here you might imagine there is some incentive to be strategic if you is some incentive to be strategic if you is some incentive to be strategic if you were just going to ask people. And so were just going to ask people. And so were just going to ask people. And so you might imagine trying to come up with you might imagine trying to come up with you might imagine trying to come up with a mechanism that still gets at the same a mechanism that still gets at the same a mechanism that still gets at the same question uh of like can I actually question uh of like can I actually question uh of like can I actually accurately evaluate potential individual

[1:17:53] accurately evaluate potential individual accurately evaluate potential individual economic harm uh or economically economic harm uh or economically economic harm uh or economically evaluatable harm be careful here um in evaluatable harm be careful here um in evaluatable harm be careful here um in in this kind of setting. So uh the way in this kind of setting. So uh the way in this kind of setting. So uh the way to do this with this mechanism is you to do this with this mechanism is you to do this with this mechanism is you treat this as a reverse auction. So treat this as a reverse auction. So treat this as a reverse auction. So instead of having uh the values be instead of having uh the values be instead of having uh the values be negative or positive they're now negative or positive they're now negative or positive they're now negative. And so you want to instead of negative. And so you want to instead of negative. And so you want to instead of maximize in revenue, you want to maximize in revenue, you want to maximize in revenue, you want to minimize negative minimize negative minimize negative I guess you still want to maximize but I guess you still want to maximize but I guess you still want to maximize but now you're maximizing negative things. now you're maximizing negative things. now you're maximizing negative things. Uh so you want to get things you want to

[1:18:23] Uh so you want to get things you want to Uh so you want to get things you want to minimize the amount of negative uh value minimize the amount of negative uh value minimize the amount of negative uh value people have or neg harm people might people have or neg harm people might people have or neg harm people might suffer. Um and so you can consider suffer. Um and so you can consider suffer. Um and so you can consider applying this to compensation for applying this to compensation for applying this to compensation for various kinds of hazardous labeling. Um various kinds of hazardous labeling. Um various kinds of hazardous labeling. Um so so so um we applied this I'll just show some um we applied this I'll just show some um we applied this I'll just show some results and uh you can look at the paper results and uh you can look at the paper results and uh you can look at the paper for some of the details. Um so the key for some of the details. Um so the key for some of the details. Um so the key thing here is uh we wanted a mechanism thing here is uh we wanted a mechanism thing here is uh we wanted a mechanism that can use much less information that can use much less information that can use much less information because again uh there's asymmetric

[1:18:54] because again uh there's asymmetric because again uh there's asymmetric information as we talked about you don't information as we talked about you don't information as we talked about you don't get CD completions till you've actually get CD completions till you've actually get CD completions till you've actually engaged in um you've actually you don't engaged in um you've actually you don't engaged in um you've actually you don't get to the completion you've actually get to the completion you've actually get to the completion you've actually made the query and there's been a made the query and there's been a made the query and there's been a completion and so we want to use this completion and so we want to use this completion and so we want to use this sort of all the pair wise mechanisms sort of all the pair wise mechanisms sort of all the pair wise mechanisms that we talked about as a way to uh that we talked about as a way to uh that we talked about as a way to uh reduce the amount of signal that you reduce the amount of signal that you reduce the amount of signal that you need um to learn the value from each of need um to learn the value from each of need um to learn the value from each of the stakeholders. Um under the hood as the stakeholders. Um under the hood as the stakeholders. Um under the hood as mentioned there's a prediction system mentioned there's a prediction system mentioned there's a prediction system that tries to predict uh the potential that tries to predict uh the potential that tries to predict uh the potential value in this case you know negative

[1:19:24] value in this case you know negative value in this case you know negative utility from a particular completion and utility from a particular completion and utility from a particular completion and then we do the second price thing just then we do the second price thing just then we do the second price thing just like before and this is compared to like before and this is compared to like before and this is compared to other generic things that you might other generic things that you might other generic things that you might imagine doing. One generic thing is that imagine doing. One generic thing is that imagine doing. One generic thing is that uh you get to observe values and you uh you get to observe values and you uh you get to observe values and you just do a regression and then predict just do a regression and then predict just do a regression and then predict directly from there. Another is usually directly from there. Another is usually directly from there. Another is usually uniform across the set of stakeholders uniform across the set of stakeholders uniform across the set of stakeholders and we show that uh using and we show that uh using and we show that uh using uh sort of the spare wise feedback thing uh sort of the spare wise feedback thing uh sort of the spare wise feedback thing uh uses much less information and is uh uh uses much less information and is uh uh uses much less information and is uh in terms of overall regret. So this gap

[1:19:55] in terms of overall regret. So this gap in terms of overall regret. So this gap from sort of best possible allocation to from sort of best possible allocation to from sort of best possible allocation to uh predicted allocation uh is much lower uh predicted allocation uh is much lower uh predicted allocation uh is much lower than say a uniform allocation. So one than say a uniform allocation. So one than say a uniform allocation. So one that doesn't take individual values into that doesn't take individual values into that doesn't take individual values into account. account. account. Uh we also looked at other kinds of Uh we also looked at other kinds of Uh we also looked at other kinds of losses. I will yeah so I will defer losses. I will yeah so I will defer losses. I will yeah so I will defer actually I think we're at time. Um so we actually I think we're at time. Um so we actually I think we're at time. Um so we show again that across um the population show again that across um the population show again that across um the population you have better distribution of uh a you have better distribution of uh a you have better distribution of uh a certain notion of war loss. Okay so we certain notion of war loss. Okay so we certain notion of war loss. Okay so we don't have time for the Q&amp;A as always

[1:20:27] don't have time for the Q&amp;A as always don't have time for the Q&amp;A as always unfortunately but I'll just quickly go unfortunately but I'll just quickly go unfortunately but I'll just quickly go through it. Uh so mechanism design uh through it. Uh so mechanism design uh through it. Uh so mechanism design uh design rules sort of strategic behavior design rules sort of strategic behavior design rules sort of strategic behavior by participants still lead to a by participants still lead to a by participants still lead to a desirable outcome. Here we're mostly desirable outcome. Here we're mostly desirable outcome. Here we're mostly interested in how it engages with interested in how it engages with interested in how it engages with truthfully eliciting stakeholder truthfully eliciting stakeholder truthfully eliciting stakeholder preferences or optimizing. So eliciting preferences or optimizing. So eliciting preferences or optimizing. So eliciting or optimizing I'll engage I'll optim or optimizing I'll engage I'll optim or optimizing I'll engage I'll optim update that a bit. Um some of the main update that a bit. Um some of the main update that a bit. Um some of the main evaluation measures include incentive evaluation measures include incentive evaluation measures include incentive compatibility, individual rationality compatibility, individual rationality compatibility, individual rationality and then often uh revenue or utility and then often uh revenue or utility and then often uh revenue or utility type of that or some other notion of

[1:20:57] type of that or some other notion of type of that or some other notion of social welfare. Um social welfare. Um social welfare. Um next lecture we have an invited lecture next lecture we have an invited lecture next lecture we have an invited lecture uh by Joseph J. Williams who will talk uh by Joseph J. Williams who will talk uh by Joseph J. Williams who will talk about ideas related to this uh engaging about ideas related to this uh engaging about ideas related to this uh engaging and using some of these things for like and using some of these things for like and using some of these things for like AB testing and other kinds of online AB testing and other kinds of online AB testing and other kinds of online learning uh preference optimization learning uh preference optimization learning uh preference optimization settings. Okay, thank you. settings. Okay, thank you. settings. Okay, thank you. Um I should also mention so a bunch of Um I should also mention so a bunch of Um I should also mention so a bunch of this is borrowed from a great tutorial this is borrowed from a great tutorial this is borrowed from a great tutorial by uh Ellen and a bunch of other by uh Ellen and a bunch of other by uh Ellen and a bunch of other collaborators. So I will strongly uh

[1:21:27] collaborators. So I will strongly uh collaborators. So I will strongly uh push to see some of that material if push to see some of that material if push to see some of that material if you're interested. And then Tim you're interested. And then Tim you're interested. And then Tim Ruffgarden uh who is now at Colombia Ruffgarden uh who is now at Colombia Ruffgarden uh who is now at Colombia teaches an excellent course on if you're teaches an excellent course on if you're teaches an excellent course on if you're interested in more of those details. And interested in more of those details. And interested in more of those details. And the material here is roughly lecture one the material here is roughly lecture one the material here is roughly lecture one too of what uh he covers.
---
Generated by https://youtube-transcript.ai — free YouTube transcript & summary extractor.
Interactive version (ask the video, AI summary, chapter outline, notes, subtitle download): https://youtube-transcript.ai/transcript?v=zkHTbb-0Gns
