 
	 

	   
	Emergency Tax
  
    
    
    
     
 
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
  
 
 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 

	 

	 
		 
 
 
 


			
     



 



 
                 

   
         
             
                 Your choices on cookies 
                 Our website uses cookies in order for our feedback functionality to work. You can choose to set these optional survey cookies that are described below. 
                 You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our  Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub.
                 
                 
                 
                    Survey cookies
                 
                     
                      
                 
                 
                 Survey cookies are set by a third-party service provided by Qualtrics. These cookies are required in order for our feedback functionality to work.
                 
                 The survey cookies collect information about the page you are providing feedback from. When you save your survey cookies choice below, a cookie will be saved on your device to remember your choice. These cookies are set as session cookies and will be deleted once you close this browsing session. 
                 You can help us to continue to improve our website by turning survey cookies on. 

                 
                 Feedback Policy 
                 We welcome your feedback so that we can continuously improve our website and its content. You can find more information on how we use your feedback in our  Feedback policy.  
                 

             
       
            Save and close 
       
   

    
         
             
                 Your choices on cookies 
                 This website uses cookies in order for our video functionality to work. You can choose to set these optional video cookies that are described below. 
                 You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our  Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub.
                 
                 
                 
                    YouTube cookies
                 
                     
                      
                 
                 
                 YouTube cookies are set by a third-party service provided by YouTube, a company owned by Google. These cookies are required in order for our video functionality to work. 
                 When you save your YouTube cookies choice below, Revenue will save a cookie on your device to remember your choice. This Revenue cookie is set as a session cookie and will be deleted once you close this browsing session. YouTube may set cookies directly according to  YouTube's own cookies policy . 
             
       
            Save and close 
       
   
  
 
  



 
   
     
  		It looks like the internet browser you are using is out of date. Please  update your browser  for the best experience.
   
     
       
  		Close
       
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  	 
		 Tá an chuid seo den suíomh idirlín ar fáil i mBéarla amháin i láthair na huaire. 
		This section of the site is currently only available in English
   	 
    
   
  
 
 


 


  

   
           
             Gaeilge 
           
           Sign in to 
             myAccount   | 
             ROS  
             
              | 
            LPT online 
           
         


	 


	 
			 
				 
      		 	
     
	
       
			 

               
               Sign in to  myAccount  or  ROS 
                
               or  LPT online 
                | 
                
                 Gaeilge 
               
      		      
               
                               
                                   
                                       
                                       
                                           
                                                       
                                                       Search 
                                           
                                       
                                   
                               
               
               

       
      
    
 


 
 
 
 
 
	 Home       Jobs and pensions        
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
    Emergency Tax
 
 
     
     
                 Overview 
                  Emergency Tax rules  
                  How to stop paying Emergency Tax  
                  How to get a refund of Emergency Tax  
                  Avoiding Emergency Tax on personal pensions  
     
     
 
     Overview 





 Emergency Tax is an alternative basis of tax deduction. Income Tax and Universal Social Charge (USC) are deducted from your gross pay at the  Emergency Tax rates  by your employer. This happens in certain circumstances where your employer is unable to get a  Revenue Payroll Notification (RPN)  for you. 
 To avoid paying Emergency Tax: 
 
 your employer must have your  Personal Public Service Number (PPSN)  
 and 
 your  job must be registered  with Revenue. 
 
 You need to do this as soon as possible so that your employer can request an RPN before your first pay day. 
 Note 
 Your employer needs to register your employment if it is not your first job. If it is your first job in the State, you can register your job on  myAccount , by clicking ‘Add Job or Pension Details’ under ‘PAYE Services’. 
 If you do not have a PPSN, then you must contact the  Department of Social Protection (DSP) . You can then register for myAccount to access our online services and add your first job. 


         Register for myAccount 




       
  		 Next: Emergency Tax rules 
         





     
         
      		
                 Published: 24 February 2026 

                 Please rate how useful this page was to you 


            
                 Print this page 
         
     

 



 
 
 
 
                         
                 Related topics 
                 
                     
                                 
                                     Starting your first job 
                                 
                                 
                                     Changing jobs 
                                 
                                 
                                     Second or multiple jobs 
                                 
                                 
                                     Your tax credits 
                                 
                                 
                                     Universal Social Charge (USC) 
                                 
                     
                 
             

            



                
 
 
 
 
 
 
 



   Back to homepage 




  Back to top 

 
 



 
	 
		 
			 
                          
                              Careers  
  Customer service  
  Press office  
  Information about Revenue  
  Revenue museum  
  Assist us  
  Consultations and submissions  

                          
                                           
                            
                          

                          
                            
                          

			 
			 
                          
                            Contact us  
  Statistics and research  
  Tax education  
  Using revenue.ie  
  Communications  
  Central Register of Beneficial Ownership of Trusts (CRBOT)  

                          
                                           
                            
                          

                          
                            
                          

              
		 
		 
                          
                             Accessibility  
  Statutory obligations  
  Privacy  
  Website feedback  
  WhoDoesWhat (English)  
  WhoDoesWhat (Irish)  
  gov.ie (English)  
  gov.ie (Irish)  

                          
                                           
                           
                          
                                           
                           
                          

                          
                            
                          

		 
	 
 
    


 

		
 

	 
 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
 
	 

	 