 
	 

	   
	Emergency Tax rules
  
    
    
    
     
 
 
 


 
 
 
 
  
 
 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
  
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 

	 

	 
		 
 
 
 


			
     



 



 
                 

   
         
             
                 Your choices on cookies 
                 Our website uses cookies in order for our feedback functionality to work. You can choose to set these optional survey cookies that are described below. 
                 You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our  Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub.
                 
                 
                 
                    Survey cookies
                 
                     
                      
                 
                 
                 Survey cookies are set by a third-party service provided by Qualtrics. These cookies are required in order for our feedback functionality to work.
                 
                 The survey cookies collect information about the page you are providing feedback from. When you save your survey cookies choice below, a cookie will be saved on your device to remember your choice. These cookies are set as session cookies and will be deleted once you close this browsing session. 
                 You can help us to continue to improve our website by turning survey cookies on. 

                 
                 Feedback Policy 
                 We welcome your feedback so that we can continuously improve our website and its content. You can find more information on how we use your feedback in our  Feedback policy.  
                 

             
       
            Save and close 
       
   

    
         
             
                 Your choices on cookies 
                 This website uses cookies in order for our video functionality to work. You can choose to set these optional video cookies that are described below. 
                 You can find more information on how we use our cookies in our  Privacy Statement . You can change your cookie preferences at any time by visiting this hub.
                 
                 
                 
                    YouTube cookies
                 
                     
                      
                 
                 
                 YouTube cookies are set by a third-party service provided by YouTube, a company owned by Google. These cookies are required in order for our video functionality to work. 
                 When you save your YouTube cookies choice below, Revenue will save a cookie on your device to remember your choice. This Revenue cookie is set as a session cookie and will be deleted once you close this browsing session. YouTube may set cookies directly according to  YouTube's own cookies policy . 
             
       
            Save and close 
       
   
  
 
  



 
   
     
  		It looks like the internet browser you are using is out of date. Please  update your browser  for the best experience.
   
     
       
  		Close
       
   
   
   
 
 
  
   
  
  	 
		 Tá an chuid seo den suíomh idirlín ar fáil i mBéarla amháin i láthair na huaire. 
		This section of the site is currently only available in English
   	 
    
   
  
 
 


 


  

   
           
             Gaeilge 
           
           Sign in to 
             myAccount   | 
             ROS  
             
              | 
            LPT online 
           
         


	 


	 
			 
				 
      		 	
     
	
       
			 

               
               Sign in to  myAccount  or  ROS 
                
               or  LPT online 
                | 
                
                 Gaeilge 
               
      		      
               
                               
                                   
                                       
                                       
                                           
                                                       
                                                       Search 
                                           
                                       
                                   
                               
               
               

       
      
    
 


 
 
 
 
 
	 Home       Jobs and pensions        
 
 
 
 
 
 


 
    Emergency Tax
 
 
     
     
                  Overview  
                 Emergency Tax rules 
                  How to stop paying Emergency Tax  
                  How to get a refund of Emergency Tax  
                  Avoiding Emergency Tax on personal pensions  
     
     
 
     Emergency Tax rules 





 The Emergency Tax rates, rate bands and tax credits are available in  Emergency basis of tax deduction . 
 When you are on Emergency Tax, the rate you pay depends on if you have provided your  Personal Public Service Number (PPSN)  to your employer. 
 Emergency Tax when you have not provided your PPSN to your employer 
 Your employer will tax all your pay at the higher rate of tax (40%). 
 
 
  Example 1 
 
 Helena started a new job on 25 May, earning €800 per week. She did not provide her employer with her PPSN. Her employer will apply the higher tax rate of 40% to all her income in the first weekly payroll after she starts her new job. 
  Calculation of the Emergency Tax due on Helena's pay Week 1 onwards 
 
 
 
   
 
 Pay  Tax  
 
 
 
 
 Taxed at 40% 
 
 
 €800.00 
 
 
 €320.00 
 
 
 
 
  Tax payable  
 
 
   
 
 
  €320.00  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emergency Tax when you have provided your PPSN to your employer 
 If you have provided your PPSN to your employer, but your job has not been registered with Revenue, your employer will be unable to obtain an RPN for you. Your employer will be obliged to apply the below Emergency Tax rules on your gross pay. 
 Where you have provided your PPSN, you are allowed a single person’s rate band for the first four weeks of employment. 
 You will be taxed at the standard rate (20%) on income up to the limit of the single person’s rate band. Any income above that limit will be at the higher rate (40%). 
 From Week 5 onwards, your full income will be taxed at the higher rate (40%). 
 
 
  Example 2 
 
 John started a new job on 4 June, earning €900 per week. It is his first employment in the State. John has a PPSN. 
 John has not registered with Revenue for myAccount. As this is John's first job in the State, his employer cannot register the job for him. His employer cannot download a Revenue Payroll Notification (RPN) for John, so his employer is obliged to tax John on the emergency basis. 
 John gave his PPSN to his employer. He is given the single person’s weekly rate band of €846.16 (1/52 × the annual single person's standard rate band of €44,000). 
 He will pay the standard tax rate of 20% up to the limit of the rate band (€846.16). His income over the rate band is taxed at the higher rate of 40%. 
  Calculation of Emergency Tax due on John’s pay week 1 to week 4 
 
     Pay  Tax  
 
 
 
 
 Taxed at 20% 
 
 
 €846.16 
 
 
 €169.23 
 
 
 
 
 Taxed at 40% 
 
 
 €53.84 
 
 
 €21.54 
 
 
 
 
  Tax payable  
 
 
   
 
 
  €190.77  
 
 
 
 
 After four weeks, if John still has not registered his first employment with Revenue, all of John’s pay will be taxed at the higher rate (40%). 
  Calculation of Emergency Tax due on John’s pay week 5 onward 
 
     Pay  Tax  
 
 
 
 
 Taxed at 40% 
 
 
 €900.00 
 
 
 €360.00 
 
 
 
 
  Tax payable  
 
 
   
 
 
  €360.00  
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 Emergency Universal Social Charge (USC) 
 The emergency rate of  USC  is a flat percentage rate (8% in 2026) applied to all income. 



       
  		 Next: How to stop paying Emergency Tax 
         





     
         
      		
                 Published: 24 February 2026 

                 Please rate how useful this page was to you 


            
                 Print this page 
         
     

 



 
 
 
 
                         
                 Related topics 
                 
                     
                                 
                                     Starting your first job 
                                 
                                 
                                     Changing jobs 
                                 
                                 
                                     Second or multiple jobs 
                                 
                                 
                                     Your tax credits 
                                 
                                 
                                     Universal Social Charge (USC) 
                                 
                     
                 
             

            



                             
                 Further guidance 

                 
                     
                                 
                                     Emergency basis of tax and USC Emergency basis of tax deduction 2019 - 2025 
                                 
                                 
                                     Part 42-04-24a PAYE/USC Regulations - Emergency Tax 
                                 
                     
                 
             

 
 
 
 
 
 
 



   Back to homepage 




  Back to top 

 
 



 
	 
		 
			 
                          
                              Careers  
  Customer service  
  Press office  
  Information about Revenue  
  Revenue museum  
  Assist us  
  Consultations and submissions  

                          
                                           
                            
                          

                          
                            
                          

			 
			 
                          
                            Contact us  
  Statistics and research  
  Tax education  
  Using revenue.ie  
  Communications  
  Central Register of Beneficial Ownership of Trusts (CRBOT)  

                          
                                           
                            
                          

                          
                            
                          

              
		 
		 
                          
                             Accessibility  
  Statutory obligations  
  Privacy  
  Website feedback  
  WhoDoesWhat (English)  
  WhoDoesWhat (Irish)  
  gov.ie (English)  
  gov.ie (Irish)  

                          
                                           
                           
                          
                                           
                           
                          

                          
                            
                          

		 
	 
 
    


 

		
 

	 
 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
		 
 
	 

	 